Main Character: Nilbert Nullingsworth, Nil for short. Nilbert is a bit.  That is, a zero in an infinite stream of zeros and, their opposites, ones.  He travels around the internet, part of a website one day, in flux as an electrical signal for a few seconds. Un Singulaire - Nilberts nemesis, the one.
The Liquidator: black superhero, goes around African countries turning bad guys into water, purifies it with some elaborate ritual and then the drought-wracked people rejoice and drink.  as a young teen single handedly brought plumbing to his village by scavenging metal, writing for grants, and reading (info supplied by UN? or US? or UK? depends on native country).  his power grew out of a series of experiments with mutant strain of ibogaine during his formative years while he was still manually building plumbing.  now has an army of followers who follow him to war-torn areas rebuilding infrastructure. (Need to do some research on this one...)
urban farming allows more non-urban land to return to a natural state; the stories and rituals that would arise in such a situation!
write a story that in no way respects the artificial barriers between scifi and fantasy, while still being serious/entertaining/non-farcical.  think aliens, werewolves, and elves in a seemless yet fractured future world.  Warring factions?  Pals having drinks and making deals?  
Devil's Cigar Mushrooms are found in only a few places in Japan and central Texas, break open into stars with an audible hiss and release spores.  Planted by aliens, they are markers for remote landing sites
Better idea: Suburban chaos.  Guns, disease, shoot-outs in parking garages and on formerly manicured lawns. 
A man busts in to your apartment.  He’s police.  You grab your gun, shoot him in the face.  Seven times.  He dives behind the couch.  He’s still alive.  He lifts his face up where you can see; its full of holes, bloody with muscles moving visibly -- sick and fluid.  A hellish grimace, the smiling mask of death.  You disarm him.  With your gun.  Shoot his shooting arm before he can use it against you.  And then, as he’s writing on the ground, you empty the clip into his chest, neck and head.  He should be dead, but he’s still making noise.  Gurgling sounds, half-intelligible.  You’re not sure if it’s just slick organs squelching into newly blasted voids or his ghost finding the last muscles capable of meaningful vibration and composing a death rattle to accompany your future nightmares.
U.S.A. implements policy where penalties for law-breaking change with the geographic information associated with the crime; for example, gun possession gets harsher penalties the closer the perp lives to the city center.
Personified neurochemicals; villain named Inhibitor.
My résumé has nothing more to say than my job application for the Student Web Developer position. I have communicated my technical proficiencies; allow me to introduce myself. I breathe hypertext. I first blogged five years ago and haven't stopped. My internet fascination has led me to think about data and information in an abstract way, which led me to look under the hood of the systems I interact with on screen. The vast possibilities of interconnected technologies continues to inspire me. 
I was recently let go from my Student Hourly job as an IT Assistant at the Energy Balance Lab. Losing that job brings my dependability into question. During the last school year I worked from 1 PM to 5 PM and rarely missed a shift. This summer I tried to work a 9 to 5 schedule. I am a night-owl, which can lead to sleep deprivation and compensatory oversleeping.  I hope to fill a Student Hourly position in the Classics department. I anticipate learning more about the Wilcox Classical Collection and sharing that knowledge with visitors. Mythology, history, and art fascinate me. When I first read The Odyssey as a freshman in high school, I was overwhelmed by the strange world it depicted. The battle of wits with Polyphemus and the grisly slaughter of the suitors grabbed my attention. When I read it again as a freshman in college, I was more interested in the story’s structure, the role of Telemachus, and Penelope and Odysseus’ reunion. Studying art history the next year, I was impressed by the dynamic and expressive nature of Hellenistic sculpture. In addition to working in Wilcox, I would be happy to research, write, and work on web pages for the department.
I was recently let go from my job as a Student IT Assistant at the Energy Balance Lab. Losing that job brings my dependability and maturity into question. During the last school year I worked from 1 PM to 5 PM and rarely missed a shift. I am a night-owl, which can lead to sleep deprivation and compensatory oversleeping. This summer I tried to work a 9 to 5 schedule. The early start and my growing isolation drove the increase in absences. The IT coordinator and I did not work well together because we used different tools for a same tasks and thus had differing vocabularies. I felt out of place among the biology students, nutritionists, and physiologists in the lab. By the time I was let go, I was only maintaining the obsolete website and performing infrequent computer maintenance.
When I first began that job, I wanted to make a career out of working with computers. It was the third time I had turned my hobby into a job. As the school year progressed, however, my vision for my future began to change. I have realized that I would rather focus on school and work with people who share my academic interests. As long as my mornings are dedicated to academics and I start related work in the afternoon, I am confident in my dependability.
As a student, I have a limited amount of time to devote to a job. I cannot learn a new framework, programming language, and scripting language all at once, as I felt compelled to do at my last job, and keep up with a developing website at the same time. I can apply what I have learned -- office software; content management; markup, scripting, and programming languages -- in a team context, learning more as tasks are completed. I look forward to speaking with you more about how we could work together.  
I hope to fill a Student Hourly position in the Classics department. I anticipate learning more about the Wilcox Classical Collection and sharing that knowledge with visitors. Mythology, history, and art fascinate me. When I first read The Odyssey as a freshman in high school, I was overwhelmed by the strange world it depicted. The battle of wits with Polyphemus and the grisly slaughter of the suitors grabbed my attention. When I read it again as a freshman in college, I was more interested in the story’s structure, the role of Telemachus, and Penelope and Odysseus’ reunion. Studying art history the next year, I was impressed by the dynamic and expressive nature of Hellenistic sculpture. In addition to working in Wilcox, I would be happy to research, write, and work on web pages for the department.
I was recently let go from my job as a Student IT Assistant at the Energy Balance Lab. Losing that job brings my dependability and maturity into question. During the last school year I worked from 1 PM to 5 PM and rarely missed a shift. I am a night-owl, which can lead to sleep deprivation and compensatory oversleeping. This summer I tried to work a 9 to 5 schedule. The early start and my growing isolation drove the increase in absences. The IT coordinator and I did not work well together because we used different tools for a same tasks and thus had differing vocabularies. I felt out of place among the biology students, nutritionists, and physiologists in the lab. By the time I was let go, I was only maintaining the obsolete website and performing infrequent computer maintenance.
When I first began that job, I wanted to make a career out of working with computers. It was the third time I had turned my hobby into a job. As the school year progressed, however, my vision for my future began to change. I have realized that I would rather focus on school and work with people who share my academic interests. As long as my mornings are dedicated to academics and I start related work in the afternoon, I am confident in my dependability.
I want to work as a Student Hourly Computer Technician for the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. I have worked with computers for the majority of my life, as a hobby and as a job. Though troubleshooting and fixing computers can become tedious, I find it rewarding to struggle with an issue and eventually find the solution.
At a previous job, a co-worker of mine was having a problem with his computer freezing. He asked me to see if I could figure out what was wrong. He ran the Adobe Creative Suite on a PC. I thought that his computer might just have too little RAM to handle the load. First I asked him to try running the Suite without other programs running as well. His computer still crashed. Next I ran a malware scan and cleaned up what I found. Still, his computer crashed when he ran his the Creative Suite. I then ran some diagnostics and found that only 1GB of his 2GBs of RAM was functional. I grabbed an extra 1GB stick of RAM and swapped out one stick at a time, retesting with each swap. I found the one that was faulty, and the problem was solved.
Such problems are not exciting, but the quicker they are solved, the less work time is lost. KU depends on computers to function smoothly and efficiently. In the end, the importance of fixing these problems overcomes whatever frustration they may cause me. I look forward to applying my skills to help the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences continue to operate well.
As cyborgs, we’ve focused on creating technology to help us become less bodily present, more disconnected with our immediate physical environment. Let’s reverse that, and focus on technologies which tie us more intimately to the world of sensation that envelops us.
Sites in the Web 2.0 paradigm are similar to farming operations because they sow seeds: create a website that gives users the power to contribute content.  Farmers sow seeds, feed them fertilizers or compost, and hope for the best harvest possible, which will bring them the most money.  Web 2.0 startups are in a similar situation: if their tools are good enough users will use them for their own purposes, normally quite congruent with the creators original intentions. Variations, of course, will occur, whether through exploiting a bug or weakness or simply a reinterpretation of the purpose for which a tool should be used. This is analogous to how famer’s produce raw food products and various corporations and individuals use them for their own ends: plastic-wrapped convenient sustenance or amateur growers following some organic method they read about on the internet.  
This set-up engenders similar types of social interaction. On the agribusiness end, people get together to drive through fast-food joints or chain restaurants which buy from the same companies as the fast-food companies. This phenomena is the subject of widespread criticism, from young angst-ridden suburban youth to freelancers in the New York Times.  But fast-food outlets continue to be successful. Can this solely be attributed to the car?
Perhaps not. The scope should be broadened to the fuel that powers the car: Oil. This is a well-worn subject, but it is at least worth noting that the majority of tractors -- which save farmers countless hours working in the fields -- run on (diesel?) gasoline. Not to mention the fuel burned in the process of transporting these mass-farmed staples to processing plants and then to grocery stores and gas stations. All of this assumes that oil is cheap. But this cannot last for long: the U.S. may be able to afford such extravagances through sacrifices in the Middle East, but this is not a sustainable power structure.  Eventually, the world must become multi-polar.  China, Russia, India, Brazil, Abu Dhabi (er wherever Dubai is), Iran, Turkey, South Korea, Malaysia, all have gone incredible development in recent history and the world will begin to feel the impact of the resulting cultural changes. But these economies are still imitating the Euro-American economic model. Cheap, plentiful oil and other fossil fuels like coal underlie their recent infrastructural developments.
So what can farming do to save us from our technophilic blunders? Farming now has a broader meaning than it did in the past. It invokes a close connection to environment, pragmatic know-how, and honest working-man values. While agribusiness may be responsible for this newly-minted myth, it has enormous resonance in the political consciousness of the United States and the world of it’s influence. All people must eat and so food is as central to human relations as the weather and who’s hooking-up with whom.  Yet what sets food production apart is it’s immediacy, it’s every-day-ness. And this allows for the contemporary attention economy to easily welcome into it’s conversation the way in which food is produced.
This can already be seen in the strong presence of phenomena like the raw-foods movement and P.E.T.A.  A campaign whose propaganda is only equaled by the book about conditions in meat processing plants from the late 1800s (The Jungle?). Documenting the conditions of feed-animals, inventing outlandishly radical new names for common dishes (see: Sea Kittens), and aggressively promoting these counter-cultural ideas harks back to the hippies with their protests and their sympathizers in TV and film.  Michael Pollan has been wisely praised for his forward-looking dietary perspective. His ideas have yet to be tested.
They have, however, been passionately discussed on blogs, forums, and list-servs. Farming this data -- the thoughts of the web-enabled, self-selected eleet -- is a frontier in modern software development. Many camps have been set-up, promising this singularity, but so far the fractiousness of this movement has hindered it. Python and Django, Ruby and Rails, PHP and it’s sprawling development community: all offer useful but flawed attempts at solutions. The major players are, unsurprisingly, the established tech companies. Apple, Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, Silicon Valley’s venture capital. Is the future of the internet mobile? Or will the laptop and workstation continue to dominate? Will we ever get touch-screen tablets? It seems mobile internet is still in it’s infancy and much more limited than the warring browsers. But much buzz surrounds sites which link the two paradigms, such as Twitter. On the surface, Twitter is a superficially interesting site. Micro-blogging? Followers and Following? 140 character limit? Apparently this way of thinking about relationships in the net-sphere makes sober sense to the jaded technocrati, as Facebook becomes the next Myspace, falling victim to spam and market saturation but filling the transient niche that services such as FriendFeed claim to fill.
Such follower-following relationships reflect the type of data farming necessary in our social climate. Deeply connecting with individuals has become even more difficult, as technology provides such a broad range of distractions that age-old, superficial distinctions such as religious upbringing, branding, and commercial stereotypes bind people together. The leveling and diversifying of the playing-field has brought human interaction to a positive correlation between distance and superficiality. Thus, generalizations and broad-stroke assumptions are needed for balanced economic relationships to emerge.
While computers may not have broached the dreams of strong AI theorists, they have allowed us to process incomprehensibly large data-sets using simple rules and infrastructure. Given enough computational brawn and storage capacity, data can be processed to unprecedentedly complex specifications. Amazon and Google’s investments in the cloud have had initial success and promise much. With this ability to harvest the fruits of emergent, organic explorations, metropolitan and regional definitions strengthen and national and federal distinctions decay. Google has re-introduced into the collective consciousness on local terms:--the more accessible Maps is most useful for local data and the more mysterious Earth sows the globe into a dense patchwork.
This undeniable interdependence demands flexibility, tolerance, and a willingness to accept that which is not acceptable in your context but is perfectly functional in others.  Geo-political differences become routine concerns for multi-national corporations, who spread offices around the world and delegate. CEO’s sit at the top of the neo-feudal hierarchy, consuming the fruits of cubicle click farms. Unifying public faces now dominate the political attention of the world; whoever presents the most ambiguously agreeable facade will win the adoration of the public. Until one of these figureheads tries to take manners into his own hands and fight the octopus-y industro-political establishment as Caesar, the nepotistic, Euro-dominated world order will continue - with Slavic squalls and Semitic scuffles to keep things interesting.
Either that, or China will become belligerent once the testosterone of the mandatory-birth-control era comes of age. If history is to be believed, similar populations shifts have nearly always led to war (exmplz?). What form the war will take is unclear; another World War seems a clear possibility. But more likely seems a cold war betwixt a united Europe and East Asian pseudo-collectivists. Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan offer the U.S. a cleared tunnel into China through the Pacific. Siberia and the Gobi separate Russia and China through an unpleasant journey similar to the Atlantic crossing between the Afro-European and New Worlds.  Within this paradigm Africa and the cradle of civilization will become the world’s battlefield.  China and Russia become more involved in African and Middle-Eastern affairs and the United States has a strong military presence in both theaters. If the mercenary trend of the 21st century’s formative years grows, the distinctions between Gazprom security personnel, Chinese and Israeli conscripts, Tribal militiamen, and U.S.-led U.N. peacekeepers will vaporize.
Who can postulate the result of such chaos? May be the true melting pot -- the site of the next revolutionary genetic amalgamation. And what does farming have to do with this?
U.S.-based influences have spread the agro-cultural-revolution to the sphere of Euro-colonial influence, to unexpected results. Coca production in Colombia and Poppy production in Southeast Asia and Afghanistan, rooted in modern farming techniques borrowed from patented American techniques have disrupted not only local agricultures but also the West’s alcoholic attitude towards mind-alterants. Big Pharma has capitalized on this paradox by distilling the active ingredients of vegetable pharmacopeia into pills and ingratiating them with doctors.  Vicoden, Xanax, Ambien, Zoloft, Adderal and Lithium have saturated culture as thoroughly as Caffeine, Alcohol, Tobacco, Psychedelia, Heroin and Cocaine. All of these, though they may be (resultant) commoditized chemicals, derive from plants. A transition to a lesser focus on choice mind-alterants and a greater focus on contextual economic strengths will lead to less farm-related strife. Producers must keep close to the earth and her cycles; emergent political concerns cannot be remedied by established law, whether honorably installed or not.
The Organic, Natural, anti-intervention approach to farming that steadily gains popularity will inform backyard horticulturists and farmer’s markets when oil based fertilizers and (Sudexo parent-company who also does KU food) become economically untenable. Relying on natural waste for fertilizer removes the need for monolithic waste management and artificial enhancement. More food grown close to home means closer-knit communities -- city-focused suburbs will become more autonomous and self-sustaining. The need to converge in a central, built locale will degrade.
While conjecture amuses, we need a more comprehensive summary of the now. Colonial tensions still unravel on the international stage. The U.N. is only as good as the superpowered security-council consensus. The U.N.’s beefy humanitarian arm and International financial institutions invest in the poorer member nations, but the relationships tend towards hands-off deal-making and intimidation by blue helmets. Robber barons rule Muslims and animists, but there are no palatable authorities that pose a legitimate threat to their hegemony. As long as the fat-cats play the Keynesian game, they are accepted as the new rich and their subjects as tolerable to the extent they tolerate their oligarchic rulers.
History hints that these conditions will lead to more decentralized food suppliance. Economies based on farmer’s land use and elevated by farming information determine the wealth of regional cultures. Innovation in these areas, whether they come from Monsanto and Microsoft or seed-swaps and open-source development sprints, will produce localized value. What various localized cultures do with their raw binary and genetic material: create cuisines, develop synth-folk, establish stereotypic relations, hierarchize data, share interpreted stats: must shape the vaguely prophesized future. 
Syntax will dissolve into an International pidgin and cause semantic drift.
Juliet uses drug to fake death, Romeo uses drug to suicide
drugs administered by supernatural beings (fairies, tricksters) for the purpose of ending conflict and aligning lovers
Shouldn't focus on R&J, but mention it.  Quote MND once per paragraph and fill the front and half the back.
People talking past each other, debating without acknowledging it. Open vs. closed. Closed fucks open.
Hi howreya i'm fine thanks well lets get started ok go then there isn't much going on here in my life just lotsa oldstuff to read about and think about and get down about so im trying to find the good old stuff and getrida the bad old stuff and that seems pretty normal maybe but ima thinkin about the future too like a good merican and so maybe well see what happens but i need to figure out where to live and what classes to take and who and waht to spend time with on so my life is fulfilling and great and i dont get sad or wildminded and make trouble and get other people down and gnerallly just maintaining.
I read a lot of journalism but I can't remember anything I've written that has been journalistic. Maybe the longest essay I ever wrote was pretty journalistic, though it was based on histories and summaries and not really on anything you could call a primary source. I wrote about the Lebanese civil war which for some reason at the end of my 8th grade year, 2002, was the most interesting thing in the history of everything that I could think to write about. Maybe it had something to do with that terrorist attack that we weren't supposed to know about until we got home but found out about anyway because one girl was late and she had seen people jumping out of that burning skyscraper and was crying. Then one of our teachers turned on the radio to save our little eyes from being scarred like that one girl's. But anyway so my essay only needed to be five pages but I ended up getting so caught up in researching and making notecards about everything that I read that when I went through my notecards and typed up my report it was eighteen pages. I wish I could find my sortabound copy of that but I think it got thrown away. The report was basically a summary of a couple different books that retold the 1975-90 (officially) conflict. I learned a lot of new words and didn't get a one hundred because I got taken off three points because my teacher thought I was plagarizing because I used a lot of big words. But thanks to the magic of the internet and floppy discks I gave the vice principal my essay and she said I didn't plagiarize and read it and said I used all the words correctly and she was very impressed. And then I got the Mr. Vocabulary award at the end of the year when the teachers gave out awards to all the students and we all congratulated ourselves for being so awesome for graduating from eighth grade and going to high school.
Woot. I’m wearing a shirt from there. True story. It’s a website. Sells random shit.
Callouses on your hypothalamus. Bitch. Minimalist singing.
Learn pantheons. Synthesize.
Write every day. A valiant goal. I’ve recently made some changes to my writing style. Most obviously I’ve changed my standard post-period spacing to one instead of two. I use two when I feel a longer pause is needed between two thoughts.  I continue to use semi-colons, colons, lists, etc. Reading the Elements of Style hasn’t made a significant impact on my writing yet. I’m only on page eleven.
I have a problem with excessive computer use. Have for a while now. I could fight myself to change my ways, but really only a few changes are necessary for this habit to turn net positive. One: better posture. A good desk chair might help, but conscious effort will work regardless of furniture. Two: write more. I consume much text but do not produce much. I’d like to flip that ratio upside down.
This sentiment looms large in my mind. Many project ideas are swirling around in my head. I take this to be a good sign. It gives me more material to write about.
I’d like to contribute more to my local music scene. Trying to remember and expand on my keyboard skills would be fun. Combine that with learning music creation and mastering software, and I could make some listenable and even quality music.  Another router would be to focus on coding. I like the idea of a jukebox server using OpenTape code. A search function that returns a result page in the OpenTape design would be killer. I signed that bullshit intellectual property agreement when I first started working so I need to make sure to download all code and other material to my USB drive from my McBook and never save anything to my work computer.
A moleskine to carry around would be fun. Or, I could just sit in the back of my classes and write in my subject notebooks. I’d take notes, sure, but if something said or written triggers an idea in my head for something that would be more fun to write then I’ll run with it.
I now have a 1GB USB drive. This opens up a lot of fun possibilities. For one, easy syncing and mobile storage for any work done @work or on a public terminal on campus. Such work could include personal code projects, school essays, and other writtens. I’d like for much of this material to go on the web. Perhaps KEW should become exclusively for interesting spam? And the blogger blog a personal collection of indie pieces. A first post could be a third draft of “Azrael”.
I’d like to affect a style that borrows from Joyce and Kenny, where as the action of the story becomes more intense the grammar, spelling and general intelligibility of the language degrades and then slowly returns with the falling action. Start with a simple triangular structure and start experimenting.
This is not the kind of writing I should be doing everyday. Maximize the amount of sharable output.
The man sat offstage in a state of extreme unease. His eyes glanced furtively around, and his heart set the tempo for his thoughts. “Why me?” he asked, “why oh why does it have to be me. Why can’t they just give me the damn thing and get it over with.” He ran his hands through his hair nervously and sunk deeper into the chair. The din of the audience had grown, and it sounded to him like a hungry pack of babbling baboons; who, while they looked and sanded civilized enough, would rip your throat out if they deemed appropriate. He stuck two fingers between his neck and his collar, loosing his new tie. He needed to pee in the worst way, but each time he had visited it before, the feeling had gone away.
At the sound of “Ladies and gentlemen” his heart leapt and hit his voicebox, evoking a strange noise from his throat. The announcer had stepped up to the podium. As he spoke, the man’s anxiety soared. He remembered his arms, tightly pressed against his body, and when he lifted them he became acutely aware of the sweat that had left small stains on his new shirt. When he heard his name called, he bolted upright, and stood stiffly. The announcer looked at him, smiling. The man returned the smile, and walked on stage. His vocal chords tightened when he saw the size of the audience, and his throat constricted at the site of some prominent individuals. He stepped to the podium and cleared his throat, swallowed, fidgeted, swallowed, and the enunciated into the microphone:
	“Cheese puffs.”
Waltz With Bashir first impressions: love the animation; beautiful imagery; captures surreality and horror of war well without being too graphic; the old men reconstructing their experiences as young men dynamic works well; not terribly impactful for me as I knew the story already -- someone unfamiliar with the conflict may experience the movie like I did Hotel Rwanda; clear relevance to the recent Gaza situation. For an Israeli movie, a bold, critical look at national actions: links modern Israeli aggression to Nazi genocide.

Slept throught class, the inaguration and whole lota hiphop. Late for work. Bitches.

First times. Today was a beautiful day of first times.

Academia and evangelical fundamentalism do not mix. The United States treats politics like a secular religion. A fascinating spectacle but worrying at the same time. The invocation of God in state rhetoric implies divine mandate. Barack at least emphatically included non-believers in his speech, but simply the fact that it was emphatic tells of the ubiquity of religious belief. To rule such a powerful and symbolic entity, Obama must employ a mixture of PoMo, doubt-based Abrahamism and empirical, definition-based Academism. Essentially, he must be a CEO. America, Inc. has to be sold to the world. It would be hard to find someone else with a story and pedigree that fills this role as well as Barama.
people want decentralization. music, drugs, are all consumed by my generation thorugh an underground, decentralized network of peers. 
Anthony Bourdain. My feelings towards him are ambivalent. He's got one of those "i-was-a-heroin-addict-but-then-i-quit-and-wrote-a-book-about-it-and-now-i'm-on-tv" stories, which is sort of boring. He probably comes across as edgy to the average Food Network watcher but I think he's just slimy. See the end of this video.

(Tangentially related more along the lines of "what is my calling and what do i want to be doing with my life?"):

Applied science in your mouth. Because I'm lazy and ambitious I'm working on writing computer programs to write for me. So far my efforts have been fairly pathetic but I have a start. I'm thinking about it. Digital Humanities! I want to do a paper/thesis/project for school in this area. No tagging Western classics for the web. More like compositional fun: crawling the web, populating databases, and coming up with formulas and filters and artificial intelligence to produce beauty and meaning. Crowdsourced literature, to combine a buzzword with an academic word. APIs and tags and Google and DevonThink and Bayesian filtering and precisely applied randomness and linguistics and literary theory.

maRth therapy.

So I sow seeds, that they be nourished by the refuse of the times. Like immigrant America before, the internet acts as a dumping ground for human experiments, pipe dreams and wild hopes. Thus the tubes replaces the tube as the most fertile ground for broad influence.

On the daily.
What happens when I type versus when I write? When I free-hand? Oh yeah, I should be using vim.
What? This week has been weird. Maybe because I stopped taking my meds for a few days. That is scary though. I’ve been eating a lot. Being mean a lot. Neglecting my significant others. I was gonna write a page a day and that didn’t happen. Fuck.
It’s easy to get distracted. I have an awful obsession with the web. More and more my web time is spent reading worthless shit. More and more my web time is spent listening to and downloading music. Mostly on whims. There is no social aspect to this. It’s a solitary and hermetic practice. I keep tons of sites and they are read by a few and I think they have inspired a few as well. That’s grand. But I’m still unhappy and lonely much of the time when I needn’t be. There are people who want me around.
I take things for granted so quickly. I am a selfish, fickle bastard. Fuckle.
Junior year of high school, all over again. Commit, dammit! Work! Push yourself! Stop stagnating!
Yelling at myself won’t do any good. I need to stop breeding reptiles in the mire of myself. Swampy solitude encourages the worship of the Great Old Ones. Merciless creatures that drive one mad. I do not want to be one of them. But I do. So bad.
	My back hurts. I want to get high. Like I don’t already live in a mindspace entirely detached from reality.
Bleh. These nasty ugly thoughts are a constant. All I can do is write them down, get them out? No, there must be some other way. Some way to make friends with these demons, occupy them and allow them an outlet.
This is not blog material. That is OK. blogs are not the end-all of writing. My prose can be public in other ways, forms, mediums. I might be in the Kansan, looking like an Idiot. Score.
But music. More than ever before now, I want to make music. That will mean a lot of work. A big risk. Taking time to learn something that in the end might not pay off. But it has become such a huge part of my life. Since the Beatles consumed my consciousness, about four years ago. And then I went through my own 1960s.
Dubstep. This new sounds thats coming out of the UK and California and Quebec and Eastern Europe. There are a lot of names for it. But I want to make it. I want to be part of the scene, surf the waves, ride the avalanche, soak up the downpour. Or, rather, be Thor, Odin, Poseidon, Legba, Hermes. Blow minds, get stuck in heads, cause global swarming. I have a will to power.

I’m a literalist because I’ve never liked implications. 
Maybe if I type in a different font my thoughts will come out different. Helvetica! If you print something in Helvetica, it must be true. See: newspaper headlines, architecture books, popular blogs.
For a long time I’ve struggled with the malleability of truth. I have a philosophical bent and read too much; I misuse words to many a listener’s ear. My punctuation is unorthodox. I’m a robot chicken, sez Stazh. I am a misogynist and a feminist at the same time.
Now, for something different. Garamond bests Times. Palatino bests Garamond.
Look at how much more authoritative these words look. How powerful, independent, and purposeful is each character. Attention to detail is clear in Palatino.
I am an internet narcissist. For real. I love to look at my own reflection, however ugly it is. I love myself too much. I am entitled to nothing but assume otherwise. Yet people put up with me and some even seem to like me. I’m pretty streaky on being socially palatable, though.
Sherlock Holmes once said something so rational that it must have been true. But what is science but a collaborative canon, a set of rules and laws which reign in reality. Many people have contributed to this chronicle: and there is even a narrative about the building of the scientific worldview with its own heroes and villains.
courier - messenger, herald, angel, trickster # kill’em
Briefing
Security Level: Top Secret
The troops you were promised have been diverted to the southern front. You’ll have to make due with the 16th regiment and help from Marine 3rd Recon.
Good luck soldier,
You’ll need it. The ancient Egyptians were black and so was Jesus but they’ve both become so white that they’ve lost their street cred.
In the future there will be a space elevator that will take people to the moon. In the past there will be a rapture that will take people to heaven. Only the ones who follow the rules get in.
You’re always on my mind. I want to live someplace warm but I don’t want to move to the South. SoCal doesn’t sound that great, either. I’ll have to stay in this river town until I can afford an island.
Europe would be nice, but Florence and Paris are overdone.
I’m a literalist because I’ve never liked implications. 
Maybe if I type in a different font my thoughts will come out different. Helvetica! If you print something in Helvetica, it must be true. See: newspaper headlines, architecture books, popular blogs.
For a long time I’ve struggled with the malleability of truth. I have a philosophical bent and read too much; I misuse words to many a listener’s ear. My punctuation is unorthodox. I’m a robot chicken, sez Stazh. I am a misogynist and a feminist at the same time.
Now, for something different. Garamond bests Times. Palatino bests Garamond.
Look at how much more authoritative these words look. How powerful, independent, and purposeful is each character. Attention to detail is clear in Palatino.
I am an internet narcissist. For real. I love to look at my own reflection, however ugly it is. I love myself too much. I am entitled to nothing but assume otherwise. Yet people put up with me and some even seem to like me. I’m pretty streaky on being socially palatable, though.
Sherlock Holmes once said something so rational that it must have been true. But what is science but a collaborative canon, a set of rules and laws which reign in reality. Many people have contributed to this chronicle: and there is even a narrative about the building of the scientific worldview with its own heroes and villains.
courier - messenger, herald, angel, trickster # kill’em
Briefing
Security Level: Top Secret
The troops you were promised have been diverted to the southern front. You’ll have to make due with the 16th regiment and help from Marine 3rd Recon.
Good luck soldier,
You’ll need it. The ancient Egyptians were black and so was Jesus but they’ve both become so white that they’ve lost their street cred.
In the future there will be a space elevator that will take people to the moon. In the past there will be a rapture that will take people to heaven. Only the ones who follow the rules get in.
You’re always on my mind. I want to live someplace warm but I don’t want to move to the South. SoCal doesn’t sound that great, either. I’ll have to stay in this river town until I can afford an island.
Europe would be nice, but Florence and Paris are overdone.
something here is lurking and it's lurking here for me
i'd kill it if i saw it but its hiding admirably

it won't come out 'til i'm ready but that isn't now
i'd get ready for it consciously but dammit
i don't know how
as early as the middle of last year i recognized the two opposing forces battling for supremacy within my mind.  one being the realistic, agnostic, iconoclastic, violent, anarchistic, angst-ridden psychopath and the other being the pious, respectful, reasonable, nice, quiet, humble, old man.  they still duke it out to this day.  the psychopath is winning out now.  damn girls.
blogs would be better if you had a currently reading/listening to/watching thing that was independent of any particular entry
Cities at Night
By day, cities are not notable to the sattelitte gods.  gray blights upon the green earth.  but by night, cities give testament to human life.  their lights blaze in the inky void that blankets the surface of the planet.  On a human scale, cities at night are wonderous things.  people are few and far between.  most are in cars.  some are on the street, trying to get sleep or drugs.  driving around, you are normally alone on the roads, the sleeping buildings around you humming steadily.  lights flash, sending streaks of color down the often water-soaked roads.  neon signs advertise closed stores and street lights illuminate empty sidewalks and lonely trees with an impersonal light that the organic handles better than the constructed.  architecture can be seen only in outline.  details fade, only forms present themselves to the wandering eye.  the metallic shine emenating from cars and windows is more apparent than in the daylight hours.  headlights like the eyes of demons flash past.  ;as colors seem more real and less offensive; more alone.  
Joe, regarding your last comment on my xanga, I was feeling quite similarly not to long ago.  I guess what got me out of it was kind of letting go.  Stop trying to figure yourself out.  You are who you are and you can't really capture who you are in ideas, being overly analytical of yourself just leads to headache and missed opportunities.  Don't try to fight your thoughts and don't beat yourself up about things.  You're never going to be 100% happy, you're always going to have your ups and downs.  Stop trying to judge things as good or bad and figure everything out, and just kind of live.  I wish I could explain it better, I'm afraid I'm not helping very much.  Good luck.
the daemon hound in my back yard with bristling fur and glowing blood red eyes and knife-like fangs
Every day i wake up and think to myself about things that i think matter or something to that affect and then i do the same thing before i go to sleep and i guess it makes me feel like i've got some sort of higher thing i'm going for or whatever but i spend most of my day enjoying life and sleeping and laying in the sunlight and reading and sleeping and driving children places in my van and sometimes scooping ice cream and making limeades and hanging out with wonderful and interesting human beings.  its pretty all right, i must say.  you know, how sometimes you're just sitting there and then all of the sudden out of nowhere there is this thing that slithers around in your eye and looks like one of those transparent microscopic organisms you see in biology class on microscope slides or on PBS and you're like what the hell and experiment with eye movement so as to see what the fuck the thing is and how its connected to you physically or if its just some strange visual artifact that appears because you're fucking insane.
do not despair, REJOICE!  for we are the happily mad and ours is a painfully meaningful and fascinating world
Learning, Walking, Running, Hiking, Wandering, Exploring, Dancing, Psychotropic substances, Technology, Art, Science, Mathematics, Meditating, The brain, Sleeping, Dreaming, Enlightenment, Reading, Humanity, Religion, Parks, Gardening, Aesthetics, Saltine crackers, Cooking, Music, Movies, other random stuff
Walking down the street at 4 am in a big city can be dangerous.  Normally this kind of danger doesn't bother me, though.  I rarely carry much valuable on me on these late night walks.  And being male, i don't have to worry about getting raped.  I mentioned the wonderful peacefulness of these walks to a female friend of mine once, recommeding she try it, and was rebuked sternly.  Women tend to get a bad deal.  Anyway, even though I take these walks quite often when i can't sleep, tonight was different.  I had been getting bad vibes ever since I left my apartment -- a sense that something different was in the air, something bad.  I've been diagnosed as crazy before, though, so I don't pay much attention to my overactive subconscious.  Still, though, waves of paranoia kept assaulting my brain.  The smallest thing would set it off: a paper sack dancing across the street in the breeze, the reflection of a light on a pool of water that appeared suddenly in my peripheral vision as I approached a corner, a homless man shifting in his boxhome.  An overly nice hooker approached me, asking how I was doing and commenting on the nice night.  I agreed and kept walking.  A block later, primary colored squares started flashing as I blinked.  This happens every once and while, but tonight it was particularly disconcerting.  THen the silver fairies showed up.  The silver fairies are just skinny silver flashes I sometimes get in my peripheral vision.  They show up when I'm stressed.  I slowed down.  My usually fast walk had become a deliberate yet smoothly flowing stroll.  I looked to my right, where a neon sign had caught my eye.  I had never seen this sign before, though I walked this street often.  It said "Barker's Tavern."  I could use a drink right about now, I thought.  So, I turned and walked in.

Surprise, motherfucker.
Tim, Ben and I were sitting at a table on the ground floor of the condo complex we were 
staying at, which was somewhat hidden from the normal flow of people and had small
garage-like rooms connecting to the other side of the building.  I had just eaten a Reese's
Nutrageous and a FastBreak, both king-sized.  Ben was smoking a cigarette and Tim was eating
Lemon Heads when Ben mentioned getting high to Tim.  Tim said he thought it was a good idea
and asked if I would hang out with him while he was high.  I said sure, and Ben asked if I
wanted to smoke as well.  I decided I'd try it.  So after some wrangling to get out of going
to the grocery store, I joined the two in one of the aforementioned garage-like rooms, one
that was more hidden away than the rest.  The first hit I did not inhale and just blew out 
because I had no idea what I was doing.  The second time, with some advice from Tim and Ben
I got a good hit and started coughing and spitting all over the place.  Tim explained the feeling
perfectly when he said "Its like Satan comes up to you and says 'So, I'm considering relocating,
how about your lungs?'"  The second hit was weaker because there wasn't much bud left in the
pipe, but still made me cough and made my lungs feel like hell.  The third hit, which I
resisted taking for a while, I didn't cough at all and held the smoke in for quite a while.
Before the third hit I had started feeling lighter and warm, the beginnings of the mild
euphoria that pervaded the high.  After the third hit I started feeling quite stoned.  I noticed
that my short term memory was shot and I had trouble holding a logical train of thought, 
although my mind was clear enough to deal with logic questions and weigh options reasonably. (contradiction?)
After we were done smoking, we walked around outside and were going to go to the pool attached to a different building so we wouldn't run into anyone we knew but got sketched out by this old lady who was looking at us funny.
Then, we went to the pool.  We
were pretty giggly and high fools at that point.  I didn't notice any physical inhibitions
while swimming, although thinking back on it, I was definitely going more slowly in general.
We talked in the pool about little incidents having to do with the fact we were high.  We had
an inexplicably intense water fight that I started by kicking Ben in the head while he was 
floating under water.  That ended with both Tim and I in pain from chlorine to the eyes.  My 
sequential memory is pretty foggy, but we also went down to the beach.  The sand and the tide
were neat and Tim sat a while playing with the sand while Ben and I went into the ocean.
Throughout the high I was very incisively witty, making sharp, biting comments on some of Tim
and Ben's thoughts.  I didn't see why they thought my comments were so offensive, although from
a non-stoned perspective I guess they were pretty rude.  A lot of my inhibitions were destroyed
during the high, and I was much more talkative than normal throughout the experience.  

Continue this, but here is an outline:
Check out the other pool
Suspicious old lady
checking out the nissan
THEN the beach
Back to the pool
Talks of when to go up for dinner
sitting on the Martin's deck
intense and flavorful dinner
realizing it was father's day
Family video
enjoying music
feeling really sleepy
just sitting and chilling very blissful
head felt warm, fuzzy, frustrating inexplicable feeling that i can only describe as "being stoned"
you say God
I say stop naming
you're all just angry that you can't describe it
it makes you feel better if you lie to yourself that you can
and your explanation of that which cannot be explained
will inevitably be different from the explanations of others
and so you fight
trying to preserve your pretenses
well-adjusted and enlightened my ass
just accept that you are a lowly human
its beyond your comprehension
don't pretend you understand
because you're an insecure sack of meat
Today was pretty real.  Most days are not because I fail to do things to connect me to the real world and nothing jars me out of this state and my subconscious takes responsibility for my body and mouth while my higher consciousness floats somewhere else attending to its own concerns.  I love this song because it slices through this barrier and instructs me through sound and symbols. (*note after the fact* WHAT SONG?!?)

I have been in the process of reclaiming my cultural heritage.  I'd say its progressing but I have very far to go.  Its all been ingrained in me since my birth and all I have to do is dig it up and consciously internalize it so I feel comfortable with it in this heightened state of consciousness I find myself in as my adolescence wanes and my brain's frantic dance of reorganization comes to its end.
HOME PAGE

I want an aesthetically pleasing web homepage.  i want something that is dynamic.
random?
daily?
every time i open firefox?

IDEA
make a script that takes a word from a premade word list and grabs an image from the net using google images or some other site that aggregates images and display it centered in the browser.

OR JUST MAKE YOUR OWN SITE (debit card)
I don't like horror films, but I'm fairly sure I could write and then direct the greatest film in the history of the genre without much difficulty.
my mind is a battlefield.  bloody, vicious battles rage between selfishness and selflessness, between my love for technology and my love for nature, between aggression and passivity, between thought and feeling, between action and non-action, between violence and peacefulness, between yearning and contentment.

the face i wear for the world is that of the bloodied victor.

people are complicated beings.

stop labeling.  stop judging.  start living.  motherfuckers.
You are an Architect, possible professions include - strategic planning, writer, staff development, lawyer, architect, software designer, financial analyst, college professor, photographer, logician, artist, systems analyst, neurologist, physicist, psychologist, research/development specialist, computer programmer, data base manager, chemist, biologist, investigator.
i dont know why you're always on my mind.  our relationship is really just that of good friends, but that happened so fast, i'm not sure what to make of it.  you are very beautiful, and a genuinely good hearted person, if you do have your faults.  i don't know, it just seems like, i could love you.  or something like that.  its probably just my justification for this feeling produced my subconscious recognizing that damn, we could make some pretty kickass kids.  haha, whatever.  anyway, i don't know, we don't flirt all too much, nor do we have conversations much.  i think its the mystery and beauty that you embody that makes you so incredibly attractive.  who knows.  we are similar in ways, different in others, but we seem to complement each other well.  i think i could love you.  i don't know.  we'll see, lets just at least give it a chance.  what say you, saucy wench?  i need to open up to you, and i need to compliment you more, and i need to show you a bit of my feelings, entice you a bit.  this is new territory for me.  it'll be an adventure :)  i hope you enjoy those as much as i.
I used to always think, man this sucks, things were better in the past.  then sophomore year
i realized the stupidness of this and made a mental note for the future me that, no, things
were not better back then, things sucked back then too.  so now all i know is that there has
been a lot of sucking going on.  now i'm not sure whether i should inhale, whether there is
a big orgasm (metaphorically speaking) in my future, or whether things will continue to suck
until the jolly rancher of my self has finally dissolved completely.
so for the longest time i had to take myself seriously to get anything done, but now its the opposite.  if i take myself seriously nothing gets done at all and i overthink things and put stuff off and am generally unproductive and worthless.  But if I don't take myself seriously I get a lot accomplished and its normally pretty good.  this is an interesting change, i don't know if it means anything or what exactly its connected to.  i think its just that i'm getting older and seeing more of the world and interacting with people more and taking things seriously just isn't an option anymore if i want to stay sane.
So, here I am.  Nineteen years old.  Head filled with songs and hopes, fears and doubts.  I feel like I'm at an impasse.  What will become of me.  Will I fulfill my potential?  Is it up to me?  I'm living at home with my parents after a psychedelic binge that put me in a mental hospital and made my return to Whitman college only possible in visit form.  I was diagnosed as bipolar but I'm not taking any medicine and doing fine.  Like Nietzsche says, the more you treat an illness the sicker you get.  Or something like that.  I'm thinking about going to Columbia College in Chicago and majoring in Game Design.  A risky potentiality.  A waste of my talent?  A great opportunity?  Shit, I don't know.  I'm still a procrastinating and somewhat burnt out fool.  Still occasionally party.  Mostly just sit at my laptop and read.  Rarely write.  Watch videos and look at pictures a bit.  Still spend too much time on Facebook.  I miss Whitman a lot.  It hurts to have to start over, to not be able to continue building relationships with my friends there.  I regret those excesses.  They brought out something truly frightening in me.  Namely, paranoia, serious memory lapses, depression, insomnia, the inability to eat.  I've recovered from all of that, but I still feel weak.  The weakness is fading, though.  I can't help being scared about the future.  What if I go off to school and experiment with even harder drugs?  What if I never get back my old motivation that led me to have such an impressive college application?  But that is up to me right?  I am responsible for my own actions.  I control them.  Right?  So, my plan of action: I finish my Whitman incomplete work.  Three programs, two essays.  What about my C++ final?  I fill out those two applications and do all the supplemental stuff I need to do to transfer.  I keep up with my UMKC work and take it seriously.  I try to get some socialization in, as well.  Keep the smoking and drinking to an absolute minimum.  Get rid of that dipped dirt.  Oh, and exercise.  When I go back to college I need to take care of myself this time.
idea:
after the singularity, machine progress has progressed so rapidly that earth has become
a dead planet, with the machines completely ridding earth of biological life and left a dead,
stripped core of the earth and then moved on to other planets, taking over the solar system
like a devastating intersteller virus. 
without an enemy, I am lost.
This one time I took a huge poop and it was a lot of work.  It took about 3 hours to completely empty my rectum.  While on the toilet I thought a lot.  One thing I realized is that there is nothing better than an aesthetically pleasing bathroom.  For example, I was at my wealthy relative's house and had to pinch a duce and the bathroom I went in was one of the most beautiful rooms I've ever been in.  The wallpaper used a bunch of common garden bugs to make a diamond-like pattern and the sink looked like a bird bath and the toilet was made of a similar material and had a similar green trim and it was beautiful.  The only place one can really appreciate this level of attention to detail and beauty is on the toilet, because when you're sitting there trying to squeeze your sphincter in just the right way you really have time to take in your surroundings and appreciate them.  Also, pooping is really not an inherantly pleasant process so a beautiful bathroom goes a long way in helping to make the process better.  And, the rest of the time you really don't need such beauty in your surroundings, so an aesthetically pleasing bathroom is, like, the best ever.
oooooh fuck

what did i just do?

i pretty much gave myself to some kid nympho.  ok so we only made out but, weird ass shit.

it was definitely interesting, but why'd i have to go after some 16 year old who will tell the whole fucking world probably

i'm pretty dumb sometimes

its chill though

i'll survive

and learn

heh

letting go is rough

as i suppose its supposed to be

neurosis
Maybe if you could just run and run and never stop you would be OK.  But you get tired.  You need to stop and rest.  What is stopping you?  What propels you forward, once you have regained your strength?  Is it the belief that to stop would be to die?  Is this true?  I do not know.  I just keep running.

Transience is the word.  You are transient.  The illusion of permanence is an attractive one.  It keeps us grasping, grabbing, struggling, suffering.  Let go of this illusion.  You are tiny water molecule in the sea of space and time.  Give in to the ebb and flow of the ocean.
Open letter to The Moon,

I want to be on you.

Sincerely,
James W. Koppen
The Vietnam War was full of people with large mechanical things that shot small metal things at high velocities.  You know, guns and stuff.  It is also considered a dismal failure by just about everyone who knows anything about it.  The reasons people think it is a failure, however, differ depending on their point of view.  On the one hand you have the stark raving mad macho militaristic wackos who think it was a failure because the US government was pussy footing around and didn't use the firepower at their disposal to take down those damn commies, using a wimpy containment policy instead of going for absolute victory.  Others view it as a failure because it was an unnecessary conflict in which the interests of the common American were not directly threatened and was a result of either bad policy and mismanagement or, at the extremes, some sort of conspiracy.  The first group tends to get fucking pissed at the second one because they think they're pussies, while the second one tends to become frustrated with the first because they think they're a bunch of crazy, uncivilized and uneducated hicks who don't understand that all you need is love, man.
	Col. Paul Ptasnik would probably be put in the first category.  Indeed, the quotes in the above paragraph are his.  He was in Vietnam for ten months as a mechanized infantry company commander, meaning he had control over a group of tanks and those operating them.
i feel like a blind rat, stuck in a maze, running into the wall, over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over

i guess all i can do is follow all the fucking hints i'm being dropped
we're walking meat bags with enough primal instinct and cultural conditioning to drown out any possibility for completely rational action.
i feel like i'm floating around in a sea of ideas.  i like this floating feeling.  someday though, i'm going to want to stand on some solid ground.  but the only solid ground in this sea of ideas is if i climb aboard a pile of other people in the same spot in the sea of ideas.  now i consider this selling out.  eventually it'll be coming up for air, a strong foundation, a solid backing.
Reflections of self are fascinating.  Some slice of being framed by others and accessible to others.  It makes one feel more real, less isolated, less alien.  What are screens but mirrors of the mind?  Television, movies, computers, cell phones.  All reflect back on the viewer, whether they are the primary user of the technology or not.  This screen culture engendered the hyper-self-consciousness of post-modernism.  The computer takes things a step further, into what has been called the pseudo-modern.  I would call drop the modern altogether, and move to a synonym -- probably contemporary.  We live in the Contemporary age.  Con meaning with, temporary meaning fleeting, transient, changing.  Life in our times, namely the beginning of the third millennium, emphasizes transience.  Cultures obsess over their futures.  The cult of the new directs lives.  And that no two moments in nature are the same is amplified even as we build and construct and try our damnedest to leave a lasting mark.  We live with transience.  Recognize the futility of forever.  Embrace the now.  It is the only way too survive.

But a break is coming.  A shaking of the earth that comes not from the movements of plates on mantle but from from the tension between established boundaries.  Chaos seems to wait around every corner.  This fact is emphasized by the opinion-makers, to keep those whose opinions are made, hoi polloi, scared and immobile.
i am james william koppen.  its just a name.  i'm an adolescent male.  its just a little strange.  you're probably an adolescent too.  it can be fun some days.  i don't know why, or how, or when.  i'm just kind of wondering when things will make sense again.

probably never

but that is fine

goodnight

such things, they make me ponder.  such words, they puzzle my brain.  such deeds, they seem so right.  i am, i am not.  maybe i should stop writing about i.  and focus on the sky.  or someother girl or guy.  and stop trying to rhyme.  like why would i use the word thyme.  except if talking about herbs.  but it seems to me i'm speaking of verbs.  who knows, who does not know.  why.  such a silly question.  such a destructive concept.  but in destruction we find rebirth.  rejuvenation.  and its kind of nice.  sometimes.

who knows, not i.  but only in things that we cannot see do the answers seem to lie.

music is a beautiful thing.  when it is really music.  and not simply rythmic sound.  i want to know.  i want to see.  to understand.  to love.  to fly.  to be.  what is this in my head.  my consciouness that kills understanding.  sometimes i understand, only in the final moments in my bed.  right before i drift into a dream.  into another land.  who is to say that this is not a dream, and my dreams reality.  each is vivid in its own way.  one is forgotten while the other is at play.  i cannot stand such a thing.  but why does such a thing bug me so.  why do i care at all about anything.  why am i even alive.  why is such a worthless word.  good for only confusion.  resulting in nothing good.  distracting us from what is important.  what is right in front of our noses.  from what matters.  from the only thing we can be really sure we have.

my stance is i have no stance.  i'm just here to dance.

i just want to hug you.  to hold you.  to love you.  what a feeling.
you must recreate yourself every day

-
that is entirely too much work and energy...
ever wonder what the hell you're doing?  i mean, this survival schict is kind of funny.
if you cant grow your own food and do all that shit then you've got to do something other people
will pay for.  most of that shit just sucks and is soul-crushing bullshit.  avoid at all costs
don't die on me now, little spark of life.  keep blazing away.  i am scared.
whenever i'm feeling not so wonderful the silver fairies come and briefly grace me with their presence, letting me know that every thing is hanky panky.
well life is a strange thing. you know we've got some pretty solid theories about how it arose and all that jazz, but that hasn't helped those living too much in dealing with things. we're all still kind of blindly running around and bumping into things and hurting ourselves and cursing all the time
god damn it.  i am completely confused.  fucked up a couple solid realtionships because i let
my stupid horny side control my mouth.  i can't decide whether to be mad at myself or mad at
other people.  i can get better.  i can improve things.  i can find motivation.  i can be
driven again.  i can care.  i hate this fucking society i live in.  i'm such a weakling.  so
fragile.  is everyone else this way?  i isolated myself for a long time because i couldn't
handle dealing with other people.  i'm a self-indulgent selfish fool.  ive jumped the shark.
i'm drifting steadily downwards and i know some day i'm gonna crash and its going to kill me
or cripple me for life.  i need to start flapping these wings again.  i need someone to help
me.  i can't return to my isolated state.  but of course i've managed to kill any real 
friendships with females i had and i've been having thoughts of just crying and being pathetic
and maybe i should just check myself into a mental facility or get therapy or something.
fuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuck.  i need to communicate with other people more.  this has been 
my dad's problem i think.  and find something to care about and work at.  i want to escape so
badly, and have been escaping regularly.  i can't stand all of this consumption and exploitation
and sheep-like behavior.  i find myself caring about what people think a lot sometimes and 
absolutely not at all other times.  i can't help thinking that i've become lazy.  i have such
a hard time doing any kind of work that isn't math or something that i've convinced myself i 
enjoy.  fuck i'm burnt out.  damn this shit.  damn it damn it damn it.  i know i'm being dumb.
i know the clean kids who try their hardest in school and are looking to the future will be
more secure in the future.  but, i don't care about security and financial success anymore.
I WANT TO FUCKING LIVE YOU BASTARDS.  hopefully in college i won't feel this.  but i'm sure
i'll find some other way to be miserable.  why do i do this to myself?  i know its all in my
head.  FUCK I CANT STOP IT.  fuck you.  i want to go to sleep and dream forever.
everything i say is a transient, spontaneously created work of art.  beautiful.
I can feel myself rotting.  Strangely, its not entirely unpleasant.

Most of the stuff I say is bull shit that sounds good to my ears.

This weekend was a highly enjoyable mess.  Sorry.  I was not on drugs or anything before, at or after Teresian, to clarify.  I just had a lot of energy and was feeling crazy.  Loud music and bright flashing lights have the tendency to exhaust my sanity jar.

I am a part of the earth.  So are you.

Driving is pleasant and comforting because I control where I'm going and how I get there.  Walking is even more pleasant because I can do this entirely without mechanical assistance.

As a kid your mind doesn't filter out any visual details so everything seems fresh, new and fascinating.  As you grow older your mind builds filters and webs of association and you don't notice the simple beauty of things anymore.  Perception at that level of acuity isn't necessary.  Sometimes if I look hard enough I achieve this unnecessary level of acuity.  Its wonderful.

We are all works in progress.

At this point in my life when the potential consequences are not as great as they will be later I reason that I should avoid mental stagnation at all costs so as to learn the most I possibly can.  I have an experience addiction.

I'm horribly afraid that I'm damning myself.  I don't want to grow up to be enslaved.  I don't want to have a job I don't find inspiring or rewarding.  I don't want to pay bills.  I don't want to live for vacations.  I don't want to have a materialistic, manipulative bitch of a wife.  I don't want a bunch of whiney, TV obsessed, brain dead kids.  The mere fact that this is a very distinct possibility frightens the shit out of me.  And I'm not completely sure what to do about it.  I'm paranoid, not about what others might do to me but what I might unwittingly do to myself.  I feel caged, bored, and lonely.  Stop thinking?  Accept your fate, be a happy little ant?  Or fight and lose?  Fuck.  More and more the 2nd option is appealing.  Its easier when you're younger and you don't realize you're going to lose.

I'm glad I got those fears out.  It helps to objectify the enemy when fighting.  We are all horribly, cripplingly afraid.  We all give in to our fears to a certain degree.  To a certain degree this is good, to a certain degree bad.  Damn, I come back to balance again.

Honestly, I'm not too concerned with what you think.  Would you like to rot with me?
There is nothing more terrifying than a beautiful girl.  Her very existence and the reaction you have to her is a challenge.  What’re you going to do?  Talk to her?  Cower in awe?  Most just stare and fantasize.  I’ve done it a lot.  There’s a good reason to.  Those girls are most often the ones who will cut off your balls in the blink of an eye.  I think they just get tired of being admired and desired by random strangers.  Or they just don’t know how to not get exactly what they want.  Their dangerous nature makes them that much more attractive.  Especially for people like me.  I love a challenge.  I love danger.  Beauty does wonders for me in all areas of life.  Winning would be a massive windfall.  Seeing a beautiful face is like a taunt.  Come on, can you handle this?  Think you’re worthy.  Prove it.  Ah shit; I just can’t refuse.

so what the hell is wrong with me?

that girl inspires thoughts of kisses and closeness but those thoughts are the very things that prevent the kissing and closeness from happening.  fuck.
your thoughts are just as real as your pubic hair.
Old Uncle Sam’s a pretty nice guy but he
Doesn’t have a lot to say.
Old Uncle Sam’s a pretty nice guy but he
Changes from day to day.
I wanna tell him that I love him a lot,
But I gotta get a head full of weed.
Old Uncle Sam’s a pretty nice guy,
Someday I’m gonna make him bleed – Oh yeah,
Someday I’m gonna make him bleed.
marijuana opens the floodgates of my mind.  memories and associations flood my brain.  the more marijuana, the more levees that break.  enough levees break and i'm completely overwhelmed, awake but dead to the world.  its like global warming for your brain.  the desert planet of dune is a metaphor for the marijuana addicted brain (assuming herbert was addicted to grass, that is).
I just realized that I spent two nights in a row this weekend with Kevin Dalton.

O_O

haha no Kevin is cool

Friday I went with Kevin and Brent to the Nelson.  I higly enjoyed the Japanese paintings.  Brent took a picture of one of them.  The one's I liked had leaves and birds and some of them had Japanese girls.  We also saw a pretty cool Hindu temple that had been brought from India.  But Brent and I still haven't seen everything so we'll have to go back again.  We also saw some classmates (I bet you can guess who I'm talking about) there who were pretty baked and having a good time looking at the art.  Then we went to Winsteads and saw the same guys and also Tom Hogan, which was cool.

Then tonight Kevin and Bobby came over and we played Halo 2.  Too bad I have no money, or I would probably get myself a copy.
wisdom boils down to understanding human nature and thus being able to predict the reactions of others to occurances, depending on the action and the actor and the circumstances of said action.
Thats good.  I have a feeling.  Its a good feeling.  The feeling is that this summer will be somehow so horribly epic that when I think back on it I'll flinch.  This is a good thing.  I flinch whenever I look back on good memories.  Like I have to rip my brain away from them before they completely take me over and leave me in an incapcitated euphoric state where I'm so completely disconnected from reality that I go into a coma and gradually dissipate into the nothingness.  Or something like that.

Things will definitely change this summer, as they tend to do.  I've always embraced change.  Its really been the only constant for me.  Just me, sitting there, surrounded by a swirling pool of craziness.  Connect, disconnect, the sunrise and sunset of individual relationships, obsessions, interests, thoughts, states of mind.  I feel a little scared now about this inevitable change.  Scared because I know that however I try to manipulate things they'll work out differently than I intended.  So, I'm not sure what I want to do about that.  Do I try anyway?  Or do I just let it go?  Just Let Go.  I tell myself that a lot.  Its interesting how regardless of how much I try to justify Christianity and what I was brought up with, my life up to this point has left me with this undeniably Buddhist perspective.  That is consciously, rationally.  Emotionally, I've a perspective thats just as undeniably Christian and western.  It'd be nice if my mind wasn't in constant conflict between these two sides.  I wish my brain would set in a consistant workable framework, but thats never going to happen, I don't think.  I feel like I can't really do anything substantial until that happens.  I should probably get over that, and just start doing, creating, and break down that mental barrier, fuck consistency, I can bother with that later.
I don't feel like my brain works completely anymore, like I'm not as aware or as fully conscious as I have been.  Or maybe I just feel that way because I am not really sure of anything anymore, which makes it hard to care about anything.  I want to consciously care about things, but I have this mental block against it.  Subconsciously I care about more than I would admit, I think.  Its even possible that I care so much about so many things and people that I am afraid to do anything but let those feelings flounder and die, for the most part.  Any strong feelings I have just tend to dissipate and leave me in this brain dead state where I don't feel fully alive.  I also feel like I've become more basic, fallen back down from my ivory tower or wherever the hell I had cooped myself up before.  We are the all-singing, all-dancing crap of the world.

This summer I want to lay on my back out in the middle of nowhere and just stare at the stars, explore the universe from my small and relatively immobile meat bag.

So, basically this is a rambling.  Cut open a vein and let it bleed.  Let it out for your benefit kind of thing.  But of course I still went back and edited and filtered and toned down before posting.  Like I always do.  Aherrg.  Way to Let Go, jackass.  I hope this at least gives you a better understanding of what is going on inside my head.
to dissect the command string i need a function that takes a string and divides it up into a list of strings, using " " as a delimiter and taking arguments for the string it needs to process and the number of items to get out of the command.  then i can use the same function in the case of all the different commands that involve more than one part
James Koppen, CLSX 577 
Apotropaic Sculpture
    The Archaic Greeks made apotropaic sculptures to turn away evils. Many of these statues are representations of evil, like Gorgons. Others show heroes vanquishing evil. Still others depict a god or gods. A sculpture turns away evils by virtue of physical context and function.
Introduction
    Medusa, the round-faced Gorgon with snaky hair and a wide grimace, was a popular subject of apotropaic sculpture. A metope on Temple C at Selinus depicting Perseus slaying Medusa is an example.
{image}
    The metope portrays the myth of Perseus slaying Medusa synoptically rather than chronologically, showing events from across the chronology in one image (Marconi 149). Perseus' central position focuses the viewer's attention on him, the conquering hero. Perseus pulls Medusa's hair -- here not snaky -- as if to hold her severed head, evoking how he later froze his enemies. His sword seems only a bit into her neck. She is still semi-upright, with one knee on the ground in a posture that may suggest that she is falling or trying to run away, though her upper body indicates neither. She is holding Pegasus, who was born from her blood after she died. Her grimace opposes Perseus' smirk and the straight face of Athena. Athena wears a peplos but has no other distinguishing features save her face and hair. She supports Perseus with a hand on his shoulder.
    Apotropaic sculpture on temples serves the purposes of a religious context. Depiction of a mythological defeat of evil assures the viewer that humans can solve seemingly insurmountable problems with the help of the gods, reinforcing religious beliefs.
A Problem
    Similar to the metope at Selinus is a terracotta cup, a kylix, depicting Theseus killing the Minotaur. Large eyes are on either side of the black-figure scene.
{image}
    Such an elaborate cup must have been used for wine on special occasions. Perhaps the eyes are meant to keep watch while the drinker sees to inebriation, making them apotropaic. The eyes are wide open, vigilant, and eyebrows top the traced eye-sockets.
    This cup mesmerizes a viewer by encouraging their eyes to cycle around the image. Between the eyes and the slaying are a white maiden and black young man, the typical color scheme in terracotta paintings from this era. The young man is behind the Minotaur and the maiden is as far away from it as possible, behind Theseus. The garments and skin color of the figures lend asymmetry to the piece. If the scene is taken as a square and divided into two right triangles, in the lower-right half the figures are almost entirely black while the upper-left half there is a mixture of red, black and white. The image leads the viewer’s eye into the Minotaur like Theseus’ sword. So the cup emphasizes the slaying of the Minotaur and then leads the viewer’s eye to the cup’s left eye. Once there the viewer bounces past the scene in the middle to the right eye and the viewer recognizes the eyes as a pair. Then the maiden asserts herself, and the viewer follows her gaze to Theseus, restarting the cycle. Besides simply distracting fellow drinkers from the drinker, the cup comforts by depicting a familiar scene of the defeat of a foreign evil and suggests a recurrence of such a victory at the moment of drinking.
A Possible Solution
    Instead of presenting a human hero defeating a chthonic monster, a Herm, like the one below from Siphnos, presents an image of the Olympian god Hermes. These sculptures were both architectural and free-standing, guarding doorways, roads, and other boundaries. The two distinguishing features of a Herm are Hermes' bearded head and a phallus, typically erect. Hermes was patron of boundaries, travelers and interchange of all types.
{image}
    Why Herms feature an erect phallus is unclear. The tall slab seems quite phallic enough. The erection could suggest sexual interchange, tying into Hermes' patronage. The phallus can cause pleasure or pain. The two pieces considered above also depict both pleasure and pain, a combination that seems common to apotropaic sculpture. Because boundaries are drawn over open spaces, Herms could be a constant reminder of the patriarchal organization of Greek society; an overt masculine figure would serve as a warning to any who would violate established boundaries. The presence of a phallus, perhaps bringing to mind weapons such as swords and spears, would represent the dominant patriarchal order.
    Apotropaic sculpture suggests pain for enemies and pleasure for comrades. Though the subject matter may differ, grand and ideal characters are typically involved. Due to the potential for evil everywhere, apotropaic sculptures occupy many contexts. As a constant reassurance, they served an important societal function, reinforcing normative values and thought patterns.
Two Minds, Two Hearts That Work as One
	In Homer’s Odyssey, Odysseus says something that contrasts sharply with the main theme of the other Greek epic, the Iliad.  The Iliad is about the nature of rage and espouses the idea that the greatest glory is attained through victory in battle.  However, Odysseus says, “No finer, greater gift than that …/when man and woman possess their home, two minds, /two hearts that work as one.  Despair to their enemies, /a joy to all their friends.  Their own best claim to glory” (book 6 lines 200-203).  In the exchange between Odysseus and Penelope in book twenty three of the Odyssey, the glory of this union between man and woman is demonstrated.
	In book twenty three, Odysseus has finally returned from the Trojan War after struggling to return home for twenty years.  During this time, many of the nobles from the surrounding area have been trying to win his wife’s hand in marriage, shamelessly consuming much of Odysseus’ wealth in the process.  Upon his return, Odysseus kills these suitors.  His loyal maid Eurycleia then alerts Penelope to his triumphant return.  Penelope is immediately skeptical.
This is a reasonable response.  After twenty years of absence it is most likely that Odysseus is dead.  And while Odysseus was a great warrior, to defeat over a hundred men at once is an epic feat.  It is then rational to think, as Penelope does, that this man is not Odysseus but some immortal god under the guise of Odysseus, punishing the suitors for their shamelessness.
	With this in mind, Penelope does not rush up to Odysseus and shower him with affection, as the maids do.  She instead stands back and studies him.  Plagued by doubts about his identity, she tests him, saying, “But if he is truly Odysseus, home at last, make no mistake: /we two will know each other, even better – /we two have secret signs, /known to us both but hidden from the world” (121-125).
	This confuses Odysseus.  He struggled for twenty painful years to get back to Penelope.  He could have stayed with the beautiful goddess Calypso, who promised him immortality if he would be her husband, but instead he returned to his wife.  After all the hardship he endured, he did not expect to be tested by his wife upon his return.  All Odysseus has to do is tell Penelope something he knows well and they can begin reforming the bonds between them.  His twenty years of exile have eroded his sense of what it means to be a good husband.
	Instead of replying to his wife’s test and proving he is her husband, Odysseus continues to act as a warrior.  He addresses his son Telemachus about the inevitable repercussions of the slaughter and develops a plan to delay the reaction of the suitors’ families.  He tells his loyal servants to start a feast with music and dancing so that people walking by will think that a wedding feast is going on and that one of the suitors has married Penelope.
	Once again, like at Troy and in the Cyclops’ cave, Odysseus takes on the role of master tactician.  In this role he has total control over the situation.  As Penelope’s husband, however, he has to give up that control and be on the same level as his wife.  After twenty years of being dominant, Odysseus is not eager for this change.  He shows this by completely misrepresenting the situation to Telemachus.  As it stands, he must give Penelope the sign that he is who he says he is and is not some immortal.  But he says to his son, “Now because I am filthy, wear such grimy rags, /she spurns me – your mother still can’t bring herself /to believe I am her husband” (129-131).
	After bathing, Odysseus once again confronts his wife, looking as he did when he left for Troy.  He bemoans her hard heart and orders the nurse Eurycleia to prepare him a bed so he can sleep alone.  Penelope responds with a cunning lie to bait her husband.  She tells Eurycleia to move the bed in their bridal chamber somewhere else and prepare it for Odysseus.  This puts Odysseus into a rage.  He yields to her demand and reveals the sign of the bridal bed, describing the process of making the bed in great detail.
	Using the same cunning for which Odysseus is famous, Penelope reminds Odysseus of her equal place in their relationship.  Odysseus built a massive bedstead from an olive tree growing in the bridal chamber.  Only one other person has seen this bed and it is a symbol of their intimacy.  In one sentence, Penelope suggests that the sturdy result of Odysseus’ craftsmanship can be moved by a maid and, more importantly, gives an outsider permission to see this secret sign.  This multi-pronged attack causes him to recognize Penelope as his equal in the relationship and yield to her testing.
	After Odysseus yields and reveals himself as her husband, Penelope’s hard heart melts and she rushes into his arms.  The couple retires to the bridal chamber, makes love and, more importantly, tells each other their respective stories.  Penelope tells her story first and they leave nothing out.
	This sharing of stories is important because it shows an important part of what Odysseus means by two hearts working as one.  While Odysseus slept with goddesses on his misadventures, he never had an emotional connection with them like he does with Penelope.  Intimate conversation was missing from those relationships.  For a successful marriage, both emotional and physical intimacy are necessary.
	An opposing view of this exchange is that it does not show two equals working as one but rather how Odysseus dominates Penelope.  In one sense, this is true.  The Greeks treated women as property.  From a modern viewpoint, Penelope is quite obedient and subordinate, waiting faithfully for Odysseus for so long while he slept with goddesses and only giving herself up when she knew it was him.  However, on a personal level, Penelope is shown to be Odysseus’ equal.  Once Odysseus takes up his role as husband there is a strong sense of reciprocity between the two.
	In the Odyssey, Odysseus and Penelope show how a truly intimate relationship is more glorious than victory over enemies in battle.  While societal norms have changed, the fundamental dynamics of such a relationship have not.  This has surely helped motivate people to preserve the Odyssey over the ages and will for ages to come.

Founded and was president of the Computer Club
Ran cross country junior and senior year and received a varsity letter
Performed a lead role in two black box theater productions and was stage manager for another
Ignatian Honors (4.0+ GPA) (9-12), National Merit Finalist (12), Blue Ribbon on the Beginning Attic National Greek Exam (11), Red Ribbon on the Intermediate Attic National Greek Exam (12), Ancient Civilizations class Award (9), National Honor Society (11-12)
I am a voracious reader.  I read for classes and for fun, fiction and non-fiction, classic texts and contemporary novels, science fiction and ancient religious writings, poetry and philosophy, textbooks and fantasy.  If a physical book doesn't have my attention, I'm reading a book posted for free on the internet by a forward-thinking scifi author or a long dead author who's copyright has expired.  While much of the non-fiction I read comes in textbook form, I spend just as much time reading news stories and academic essays on the web.  Maybe the best thing about the internet, though, is that these are far from the only sites I read.  Thanks the the interlinked nature of web pages, I am always finding new and interesting sites.  Whatever the medium, reading is by far my favorite form of recreation.
The Nature of Eros
The Medea shows how Eros can lead to great tragedy.  The Symposium shows how Eros can lead to a greater understanding of beauty and truth.  Together they prove a point made in the Symposium that Eros is not in and of itself a good and beautiful thing.  Alcibiades’ tragedy is that he is obsessed with Socrates because of his own self-centered ambition.  Medea’s tragedy is that following the fundamental Greek ethic of doing good to your friends and harming your enemies led her to commit the atrocious crime of killing her children.  The tragedies are related in that they show two ways in which Eros leads to something not good.
	Medea was a sorceress who betrayed her father and brutally murdered her brother for the sake of Jason the Argonaut.  When Jason betrays her to marry the Princess of Corinth, he breaks his sacred marriage vows to Medea.  In doing this, he becomes Medea’s enemy.  
	This presents a peculiar predicament for Medea.  The fundamental Greek ethic is to harm your enemies and help your friends.  Medea’s enemy in this situation is her former husband.  Eros plays an interesting role in this situation.  Its intensity led her to brutally kill and mutilate her own brother so that Jason could escape from her father.  With Jason now her enemy, the intense creative energy of Eros becomes equally intense destructive energy.  This energy is still focused at Jason.  She does a similar thing to harm Jason as she does to harm her father: she kills the children she had with Jason.  While these actions are justified under the Greek ethic, they are obviously and appallingly wrong.  Then the tragedy is that Medea’s actions were both right and wrong.
	Alcibiades is also tragically in love with someone to his own detriment.  He is clearly smitten by Socrates.  He desires Socrates’ power of speech and unique insightfulness.  He tries to enter into a traditional Greek homosexual relationship with Socrates to learn these skills but Socrates rejects him, saying “you seem to me to want more than your proper: you offer me the merest appearance of beauty, and in return you want the thing itself, ‘gold in exchange for bronze’” (70).  Alcibiades’ tragedy is that his ambition and self-centeredness traps him.  Eros cannot lead him to a greater understanding of truth and beauty because he values beautiful speech and ideas for how they can affect crowds and bring him personal glory, not for their own sake.  He is indeed then a “slave,” not to Socrates but to his own lack of virtue.
	This slavery to eros eventually leads to Alcibiades’ downfall, much in the way that Medea’s love for Jason is corrupted into a vile and profoundly destructive force.  Alcibiades becomes a traitor and is eventually assassinated.  Medea literally destroys what Jason has tarnished, while Alcibiades is destroyed by what only Socrates can make clear to him.  Alcibiades has no shame.
	Eros, properly used, can lead to immortality for the person afflicted.  Children and creative works of all types spring from it.  But when it is abused or corrupted, it lead to destruction, as in the cases of Medea and Alcibiades.  Just as Diotima asserts, it is a neutral spirit, neither god nor mortal.  
Jesus on Love and Hebrew Law
	Jesus’ teachings go beyond Hebrew Law.  While Hebrew Law outlines what not to do, Jesus gives only one affirmative commandment: “You shall love the Lord, your God, […] and your neighbor as yourself” (Luke 10:27).  He does not emphasize the strict, highly specific code of conduct contained in the Torah.  Instead, he advocates trusting in and acting on feelings that are common to all people.  Jesus phrases this distinction as following the spirit of the law instead of the letter of the law.  Following the letter of the law can lead to sin.
	At the time of Jesus, the religious authorities in Hebrew society were close adherents to the laws contained in the five books of the Torah.  According to the Torah, anyone who breaks the Law becomes physically unclean.  By this logic, sin and sinfulness is contagious. 
	In the parable of the Good Samaritan, Jesus shows how this idea can be problematic.  In the parable, a traveler is robbed and left by the roadside to die.  Two holy men, a priest and a Levite, see this man as they are coming up the road, and pass to the other side to avoid coming into contact with what they assume to be a corpse.  Then, a Samaritan comes by and, moved by pity, takes the man to an inn and pays the innkeeper to nurse him back to health (Luke 10:30-35).
	Here Jesus shows how following the letter of the law can prevent people from following the ultimate commandment of loving one’s neighbor.  According to the Torah, coming into contact with a corpse makes a person unclean.   With this law in mind, the two holy men were able to counteract their initial impulse to go over and check to see if the man was all right.  They used the Law as an excuse to make an assumption they knew could be false.  Using this false assumption, they went against their own human impulse, preventing them from doing good.
	In the larger context of Luke’s gospel, the Good Samaritan parable is used to answer a question raised by Jesus’ aforementioned commandment: what does ‘neighbor’ mean?  That a Samaritan helps the dying man is important.  The Samaritans were a group who had split from the mainstream Hebrew society.  They were considered heretics and greatly reviled.  Jesus uses a member of this group as an example of someone following God’s Law to show that religion, ethnicity, class, and all other divisions do not matter when it comes to doing good.  Any person can do good regardless of their affiliations and past actions.  All that matters is that they are human.
	 This notion is expanded upon in the story of the sinful woman at the dinner party told in Luke 7:36-50.  Jesus entered the house of a Pharisee named Simon to dine with him and during the dinner a “sinful woman” came in and bathed his feet with her tears, dried them with her hair, kissed them and anointed them with ointment.  The Pharisee, thinking only of this woman’s sinfulness and not paying attention to her actions, questioned Jesus on why he would let such a person touch him.  Jesus then told a story, not quite a parable, about a creditor forgiving debts.  Jesus then noted that the woman was doing the things that a host was expected to do for his guest.  “So I tell you,” Jesus says, “her many sins have been forgiven; hence, she has shown great love.”  The dinner guests grumbled and questioned Jesus’ authority, but Jesus said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you; go in peace.”
	In this passage, Jesus establishes that people can completely change their lives at any time.  He does this by redefining the agency involved in the forgiveness of sins.  The woman shows great faith and love by fulfilling the normative obligation of a host in an extra-ordinary way, showing that she is not scheming or motivated by selfish interest as the Pharisee and dinner guests assume.  Jesus says that her “sins have been forgiven” and her faith saved her.  The only thing to suggest that the agency of forgiveness lies outside the woman is the line “your sins are forgiven” (Luke 7:48).  Looking at the original Greek, however, “are forgiven” is a mistranslation. The identical form is translated in the previous verse as “have been forgiven.”  Therefore, if each individual person has the ability to redeem themselves through faith and love, then it follows that all people have an equal ability to do good and completely change their life at any time.
	With this simple but difficult message, Hebrew Law and the power structure associated with it becomes obsolete.  In this way, Jesus’ message goes beyond Hebrew Law.
Augustine Surrenders
	In book VIII of his Confessions, St. Augustine surrenders to God by giving up his pride.  In giving up his pride, Augustine puts his full trust in God.  This change comes over him without an act of his own will.
	Augustine’s life up until this point had been one of worldly pursuits.  He was born into a divided family – his mother was a Catholic and his father a pagan.  Growing up, he pursued pleasure and thrills, breaking religious and secular laws for fun.  As a young man, he became involved with Manichaeism, an offshoot of Christianity that preached that there are two competing forces acting in the world.  He pursued a career teaching rhetoric and his frustrations with his students eventually led him to Milan.  There he heard the Hebrew Scriptures interpreted from a non-literal standpoint for the first time and became a near-convert to Catholicism.  However, Manichaeism had influenced him such that he attempted to understand spiritual concepts in physical terms and so he continued to struggle with his beliefs.  Neo-Platonism finally allowed him to philosophically reconcile Catholicism.  With this insight, Augustine has a vision of God.  This clarity did not last long, however, and Augustine fell back into his old thought patterns.  He attributed this to his sins and his failure to recognize Jesus as the mediator between God and man.
	Even with his understanding of God, Augustine is still struggling with Christianity at the beginning of book VIII.  He does not want “more certain proof of [God], but only to be made more steadfast in [God]” (157).  He goes to a man he knows to be a devout believer named Simplicianus and tells him about his problems.  Simplicianus tells him a story about a famous translator of Neo-Platonic texts who gave up his career in order to convert to Catholicism.  This story inspires Augustine but once again the strength of his habits keeps him from action.  However, by this time Augustine is conscious of this fact and wants to do something about it.  
Around this time a man named Ponticianus came and visited Augustine at the house where he was staying with some friends.  Ponticianus told him and his friend Alypius about two men who, upon reading the story of an Egyptian monk named Antony, dedicated their lives to God and decided to become monks.  
This story brings Augustine to a point of extreme self-criticism.  He can no longer justify his position in life to himself and desperately wants to change.  However, he feels as though his “inner self [is] a house divided against itself” (170).  The story makes him feel like a fool and he agitatedly tells Alypius as much, storming out of the house into an adjacent garden.  There he tries to will himself to renounce worldly pursuits but he cannot and goes into violent, self-abusive spasms where his body obeys his incensed mind’s slightest whims.  However, he cannot will himself to will a conversion.  His habits, much stronger than his “higher,” “untried” instincts, nag at him, and the closer he comes to conversion, the more he is afraid (175).
This terribly painful limbo which Augustine finds himself in soon abates, but not by any act of his own.  The “voice of habit” becomes quieter and he has a spiritual vision of the Platonic virtue of self-control, Continence, who admonishes him for trying to beat his habits on his own strength.  This drives Augustine to leave the bench on which he was sitting with Alypius to weep under a fig tree.  There, bemoaning how he has put off a conversion for so long, he hears a voice that repeats “take it and read” (177).  He understands this as a divine command to pick up his Bible and read the first passage he sees.  The passage his eyes land upon says “Not in reveling and drunkenness, not in lust and wantonness, not in quarrels and rivalries.  Rather arm yourselves with the Lord Jesus Christ; spend no more thought on nature and nature’s appetites.”  Then Augustine reports that he “had no wish to read more and no need to do so.  For in an instant […] it was as though the light of confidence flooded into my heart and all the darkness of doubt was dispelled” (178).
Here Augustine gives up his pride and is converted without action on his part.  The agency in this account is completely God’s.  As an intellectual, Augustine’s admission that he had no wish or need to read more is a testament to his surrendered pride.  And the confidence that floods his heart comes from outside of him.  Augustine’s great change, though he desired it and even prepared for it, simply came over him, without an act of his own will.
Excellent Emilia
	In Shakespeare’s Othello, Emilia is the tragic hero of the play.  She, like all the other characters, does her part to further Iago’s plot.  However, in the end, she sacrifices herself to make sure the truth is revealed, her mistress’s honor remains intact and her husband is brought to justice.
	In her first appearance, Iago, her husband, presents her as a nagging wife who seems harmless but has a penchant for scolding, even if she does not always voice her critical opinions.  She speaks little and keeps in the background, quickly letting Desdemona take the spotlight away from her.  However, Desdemona is clearly quite fond of Emilia as she vehemently defends her from her husband’s attacks on her character. 
	Emilia establishes herself as a socially intelligent, loyal servant in her next appearance.  Cassio has been discharged from his post for a violent drunken rampage and is trying to win back his post and Othello’s favor.  Iago, as part of his grand scheme, suggests that he talk to Emilia in order to gain access to Desdemona.  Upon meeting Cassio, Emilia is supportive and reassuring, telling him that “[Othello] protests he loves you, and needs no other suitor but his likings to bring you in again.”  When Cassio insists on meeting with Desdemona, Emilia accommodates his wishes.  In the exchange that ensues, Emilia speaks little and assumes her usual subordinate role, only interjecting to relate how she thinks her husband feels responsible for the situation and to alert Desdemona that Othello has arrived.
	However, Emilia shows that she is probably too accommodating of her husband in her next entrance.  She allows Iago to take Desdemona’s handkerchief.  This handkerchief is highly important to Desdemona as it was the first gift given her by Othello.  Iago has apparently been pressuring her to steal it for some time, and when she discovers it he shows up and snatches it from her.  Emilia questions his motives but he brushes her off and tells her to go away.  She has no reason to suspect what Iago is planning to do with the handkerchief, and so can hardly be faulted for bowing to her husband’s desires.
	She can be faulted, however, for lying to Desdemona about the handkerchief, which she blatantly does in her next appearance.  Immediately following this exchange, Othello reveals his jealousy to Desdemona for the first time.  Emilia effectively counsels her mistress after Othello’s outburst.  Her view of men is that they are difficult to really know and are to women as stomachs are to food.  Also, she ruminates on the nature of jealousy; “Jealous souls are not ever jealous for a cause, But jealous for they’re jealous.  It is a monster Begot upon itself, born on itself.”  Desdemona is moved to pursue Othello and attempt to talk with him, which is the best course of action she could take in that situation.
	In her first appearance in Act IV, Emilia defends Desdemona’s honor from Othello’s jealous accusations.  She goes so far as to “[l]ay down [her] soul at stake” in asserting that Desdemona is true to him.  Unfortunately, this does not sway Othello and he confronts Desdemona, his mind already made up about her fidelity.  After this confrontation, Emilia sympathizes with Desdemona and explains the situation to Iago.  Fascinatingly, she comes to an impressive realization; “I will be hanged if some eternal villain […] Have not devised this slander,” she fumes and goes on to attack the manipulator even further in her following lines.  This is the first time in the play when any character recognizes the fruits of Iago’s schemes for what they are.  Still, however, she does not connect her husband to the affair, even when she references Iago’s previous suspicions that she had an affair with Othello.
	In the next scene, Emilia once again shows herself to be a loving servant of Desdemona.  She puts the wedding sheets on the bed as asked, and chides Desdemona when she speaks of an imminent death.  Then an interesting discussion takes place.  Desdemona asks Emilia if women mistreat their husbands in ways similar to how Othello has been treating her.  Emilia answers with certainty that some do.  Desdemona then asks if Emilia would do any such thing “for all the world.”  To her surprise, Emilia answers that she would, saying that “it is a great price for a small vice.”  She continues to justify her answer with the logic that if one gained the whole of this earthy realm for one misdeed, one could change the rules of the world after the fact to make it right.  When Desdemona expresses doubt that women who would do such a thing exist, Emilia launches into her most interesting speech in the play.  She says that husbands are responsible for their wives’ failings.  Women have the same frailties as men do, and when men, who in the culture of Shakespeare’s time were superior to women socially, give in to those weaknesses, women follow their example.
	In the final climatic scene of the play, Emilia’s acts heroically and defies her own speech.  After being sent from the scene of Roderigo and Cassio’s altercation to inform Othello of what happened, Emilia arrives in Desdemona’s bedroom.  There she finds Othello and a nearly dead Desdemona.  After Desdemona dies without revealing Othello as her murderer, Othello condemns her and boasts of his guilt.  This sends Emilia into a righteous rage and through repeated questioning she begins to uncover her husband’s part in the murder.  Instead of following her husband’s example as according to her speech she should, she says “I care not for thy sword; I’ll make thee known, Though I lost twenty lives,” and begins shouting for help.  When Iago and the others arrive, Emilia directly confronts her husband.  When he admits that he told Othello that Desdemona was false with Cassio, Emilia reveals to them all Othello’s murderous deed.  Despite her husband’s numerous commands and threats, she insists that she will not leave nor hold her tongue.  When Othello uses Cassio’s possession of Desdemona’s handkerchief to justify his suspicions, Emilia immediately tells what actually happened, even though it proves her husband’s guilt.  Othello realizes that she is telling the truth and tries to attack Iago but is disarmed and Iago stabs Emilia.  All but Othello go to chase after the fleeing Iago, leaving Emilia singing the song Desdemona sang when she predicted her own death earlier that night.  Her last words are “So come my soul to bliss as I speak true.  So speaking as I think, alas, I die.”  
	In this final scene, Emilia shows she is willing to stand up for the truth and protect the honor of her mistress, even in the face of her own guilty husband and a menacing Moor who just killed said mistress.  Indeed, she is slain because of her courageous defense of the truth and her mistress’s honor.  In the final scene, she takes what power she has and uses it, after being a subordinate and bending to the will of others for the entire play.  She does not succumb to her husband’s failings as she says all women do.
Othello, on the other hand, even though he was manipulated, allowed himself to be.    He allowed jealousy to consume him and did not confront Desdemona until he was convinced of her guilt.  While Emilia was not as smart as Iago, nor as pure of heart as Desdemona, she shows a strong moral character in a time of intense crisis and loses her life for it, in the manner of a true hero.
 Ridiculous Religious People
	In Candide, Voltaire satirizes European society.  In particular, he portrays the religious establishment as hypocritical.  Religious figures ignore their vows of chastity, engage in what amounts to human sacrifice, refuse to give to the needy, and steal in violation of their vows.  According to Voltaire, religious people are just as morally bankrupt as the rest of humanity, and the fact that they claim otherwise makes them worse.  Voltaire conveys this idea through the use of irony and a sardonic tone.
Clergy are portrayed as unchaste, contrary to their vows.  The Grand Inquisitor of Lisbon shares Cunegonde with a wealthy Jew.  This goes beyond breaking chastity and amounts to the exploitation of women, which is portrayed as the norm in Europe throughout the novel.  Voltaire is then bringing the Grand Inquisitor down to the level of the common man and proving his vows of chastity to be empty posturing.  
	In this same way, other religious figures are shown to be hypocritical.  Cunegonde’s brother is adopted into the Jesuits through a “tender friendship” with a brother who finds him be an attractive young boy, implying an exploitative homosexual relationship.  While not stated explicitly, later on in the book a homosexual relationship is again implied between Cunegonde’s brother and a young Turkish boy, reversing his sexual role.  Most controversially, the old woman who brings Candide to Cunegonde after he is flogged is the daughter of the Pope.  The old woman introduces this fact quite nonchalantly in the text and Voltaire does not have to go into the implications of this device.
In one particularly ridiculous scene, the Portuguese inquisition engages in human sacrifice.  Candide and Pangloss arrive in Lisbon after being shipwrecked and an earthquake devastates the city.  In response, the Inquisition decides that the only way to prevent earthquakes is to burn people alive in a public spectacle.  The people chosen for this gruesome fate are someone accused of “having married his godchild’s godmother” and two people accused of being Jews because they were observed removing bacon from one of their meals.  Pangloss was accused of heresy for his philosophy and hung while Candide was flogged for listening to Pangloss with a sympathetic ear.  All of this was done in a grand ceremony involving a sermon and music.  After the ceremony was completed, there was an aftershock.
Catholics are not the only religious people who are satirized.  Having run out of food during his escape from the Bulgar army, Candide turns to begging.  All of the people he asks turn him away, until eventually he comes across a man who had just preached for an hour non-stop about charity.  This man also refuses to give him food, saying Candide doesn’t deserve any because he doesn’t believe that the Pope is the anti-Christ.  Nevertheless, Voltaire does not portray all religious people as bad.  The only seemingly good person he introduces is Jacques, who is a member of the radical Anabaptist sect.
In another scene, a Franciscan breaks his vow of poverty by robbing Candide and Cunegonde of the jewels they took from Don Issachar and the Grand Inquisitor.  
Creativity, Morality and the Will to Power
	In On the Genealogy of Morals, Friedrich Nietzsche discusses two different forms of creativity.  He was particularly fascinated with the reactive creativity that is rooted in ressentiment.  In contrast, he wrote of a proactive form of creativity, born of noble strength and health.  These types were discussed as wholly separate and in relation to morality, but Nietzsche discusses how the two moralities that spring from these forms of creativity have mixed over the ages.  While not possible simultaneously, one can be both proactively strong and reactively weak in different situations.
Nietzsche begins his polemic by discussing the difference between master and slave moralities.  This distinction is important in understanding the relationship between reactive and proactive creativity.  The nature of these moralities sheds light on the nature of the respective forms of creativity from which they spring.
Ressentiment is a feeling of resentment, anger and frustration that is impossible to directly express.  It inevitably leads to a sense of inferiority that inspires the creation of a system of values.  This value system begins with a negative evaluation of that which is perceived to be to blame for this inferiority complex.  Nietzsche sees this reactive creativity as the inevitable consequence of the hierarchal societies that arose when humans developed agriculture.  Ressentiment grows within those who lack the power to act, namely, the slave class.
Slave morality, as Nietzsche defines it, was born out of the ressentiment of the weak and put-upon.  This morality based in ressentiment first categorizes the noble ruling class as “evil” and then, as an afterthought, recognizes itself as “good.”  Instead of immediately acting in revenge and forgetting the injury or slight as a noble does, a person of the slave class must allow the psychological wound to fester because of their position in society.  This dull, continuous pain begets a certain type of creativity.  It is a creativity based on demonizing that which is different.  The creative act involved is not an affirmation like with noble morality; “No is its creative deed.”  The Jews and their spiritual descendents, the Christians, have a morality based in the ressentiment of their ancestors.
	Master morality, on the other hand, is born out of the spontaneous creativity of the strong and “develops from a triumphant affirmation of itself.”  Nietzsche uses the morality of the Greeks and Romans as an example.  The noble first recognize themselves and their actions as “good.”  As a dismissive afterthought, they characterize those whom they lord over and what they do as “bad.”  Unlike the smoldering hatred of the slaves towards their masters, enshrined in language as the concept of evil, the bad of master morality goes only as far as to recognize that being in the position of the slaves is undesirable.  Nietzsche characterizes these people as happy yet brutish, delighting in violent conquest and acts of cruelty.
	Nietzsche does not divide all of Europe along such strict lines.  Clearly, he dislikes the popular European morality of his time, which is derived from what he has described as a slave morality.  However, he also says that with ressentiment, people become interesting in that the concept of evil is born from it.  Indeed, he says that ressentiment makes people cleverer.  With the triumph of slave morality, people are no longer just spontaneously creative but can will something for longer than their brief short-term memory allows.  No longer simply animals acting on instinct, they acquire depth.
	Going deeper into Nietzsche’s philosophy, proactive and reactive creativity are the result of different strengths of will.  The weak-willed, the “lambs,” condemn those with strong wills, the “birds of prey.”  However, Nietzsche argues, the birds of prey cannot help killing lambs; in fact, if they did not kill lambs they would not be birds of prey.  Here Nietzsche says that there is no subject, simply a will to power that expresses itself.  To suggest that there is a separate, detached subject that can decide whether or not to will a certain thing would be fallacy.  This is not to suggest an absence of free will; in fact the will is the fundamental driving force behind all action.  Therefore, strong wills will necessarily dominate weak ones.  The proactive and reactive creativities are simply the result of the will acting in whatever way it can.  Humans “will sooner will nothingness than not will.”
	Our modern morality shows the influence of both slave and master morality. The Greeks and Romans have strongly influenced our laws and forms of government, not to mention art and architecture.  The Judeo-Christian tradition has also had a strong influence on modern morality and a large percentage of the population of the West still identify with one of the associated religious groups.  Societal structure is not as clear and stratified as it once was, so the master-slave dichotomy gives a very incomplete and inaccurate picture of modern morality.  Indeed, this was the case in Nietzsche’s time, and he feared that because of the widespread influence of the Judeo-Christian morality Europe was becoming dull and mediocre.  However, he was not so simple-minded as to recommend a wholesale conversion to a brutish master morality.  He recognizes that the mixture of these two seemingly opposite forms of morality allows for strength with self-restraint.  Indeed, he sees the strength to make promises as one of the best things to come from the modern “mixture of races.” 
The burden of ressentiment is not necessarily so overwhelming that one cannot display strength.  With bad conscience, people gain depth.  However, people are not constantly afflicted with bad conscience and often do things that are spontaneous. Master and slave moralities have taken on a life of their own, distinct from the creative forces that spawned them.
	Therefore, reactive and proactive creativity are not mutually exclusive.  As Nietzsche himself admits, the strong can be afflicted with the “sickness” of which reactive creativity is symptomatic.  And even the weak-willed can be proactively creative, spontaneously dominating a being weaker than themselves in some way.
Passing On
	Some events are so painful that those hurt by them would give anything to forget them.  But they can’t – at least not entirely – and so when they can no longer keep their silence, they tell their story.  In Beloved, Toni Morrison relates such a story.  When two former slaves from the same plantation, Sethe and Paul D, meet by chance twenty years later, they unlock for each other a trove of painful memories.  This allows them to connect on a deep level.  In each other they find someone they can confide the intense feelings that have been kept locked away for so long.  But at the end of the book Morrison tells the reader “this is not a story to pass on.”
	Paul D shows up at Sethe’s door twenty years after he last saw her.  He drives away the ghost of Sethe’s daughter and lives with them happily for a while.  He leaves after learning that Sethe killed that daughter by cutting her throat with a saw when her former owner found her and intended to return her and her children to his plantation as slaves.  In the meantime, a strange girl shows up on the steps of Sethe’s house at 124 Bluestone Road, calling herself Beloved, the only word engraved on Sethe’s dead daughter’s gravestone.  Morrison provides ample evidence that what Sethe and Denver come to believe about this girl is true: she is the embodiment of Sethe’s murdered child.  Beloved’s strange powers gradually drive Paul D out of the house and cause him the unease that drives him to discover Sethe’s murderous deed, but not before she seduces him.  Paul D leaves 124 when he finds out about Sethe’s “rough choice.”  Once he is gone, Beloved begins to dominate Sethe’s energies and attention.  Denver, Sethe’s youngest daughter, is increasingly pushed out of the picture until Beloved has total control over Sethe.  While Sethe continually tries to explain why she did what she did and satisfy Beloved’s every whim, she begins to waste away.  Timid Denver then steps out of the house and goes to her former teacher for help.  Eventually she gets a job in the household of the Bodwins, the white abolitionists who kept Sethe from being executed after she killed her child, and word gets out about Beloved.  The local women decide to end their shunning of Sethe and try to exorcise the demon they believe has her captive.  They arrive just before Mr. Bodwin, who is picking up Denver, and when Sethe sees him she charges at him with an ice pick but is prevented from stabbing him by Denver and the gathered women.  The women and Mr. Bodwin see Beloved on the porch – naked, pregnant and smiling – but she has disappeared by the time the chaos and confusion caused by Sethe’s outburst ends.
	After the incident with Mr. Bodwin, 124 is no longer haunted by Beloved.  Paul D hears about the incident from Stamp Paid, the man who helped Sethe and newborn Denver cross the Ohio River.  While still considering whether he should return, he runs into Denver as she goes to look for a second job.  Seeing how Denver has matured and hearing from her that it would be all right for him to visit, he finally returns to 124.  Even though Sethe reminds him of his days at Sweet Home and the humiliation that followed, he cannot stay away.
	When he arrives at 124 he finds that, indeed, the place is no longer haunted.  Instead of the voices that surrounded it, there is only silence.  Not finding Sethe at first, Paul D finally hears her singing an old song, lying in the bed where Baby Suggs spent her last days.  The conversation that follows spells out how Sethe and Paul D relate to each other.
	For Sethe, Paul D is “the kind of man who can walk in a house and make the women cry […] and tell him things they only told each other.”  In other words, he is someone she can talk to about the painful things that happened in the past.  Paul D feels similarly.  Sitting by her bedside, he is reminded of a sentiment Sixo, one of the slaves at Sweet Home, expressed about a woman he often snuck off to see: “She is a friend of my mind.  She gather me, man.  The pieces I am, she gather them and give them back to me in all the right order.”  For Paul D, then, Sethe is someone who brings together the disparate fragments of his shattered psyche and makes him feel whole again.
	While Paul D is surely an emotionally broken man, after Beloved’s flight Sethe is in even worse shape.  Speaking of Beloved, Sethe says “[s]he was my best thing.”  Paul D assures her otherwise -  “You your best thing, Sethe.  You are.”  Sethe’s response of “Me? Me?” is open to interpretation.
	Judging from the scene leading up to her incredulous response, Sethe’s second “Me?” seems to indicate increased disbelief more than a spark of hope.  Her “expressionless” eyes as Paul D enters the room, her attachment to her spot in the bed by the window, and her response of “I don’t have no plans” to Paul’s angry accusation that she plans to die there, all give the impression that Sethe’s suffering has become too great for her to go on and she is content to waste away.  The only suggestion of hope is Paul D’s caring words and desire to “put his story next to hers”.  However, Paul D’s good intentions and whatever action they may bring seem weak in comparison to the weight of Sethe’s misery.
	The book ends curiously.  After this touching scene, Morrison tells the reader that “it was not a story to pass on” after an entire book in which she did just that.  This seemingly contradictory statement, repeated and then changed slightly in its last appearance, illuminates the nature of slavery’s legacy.  On the one hand, it is a difficult subject that one does not discuss lightly.  Nevertheless, the influence of that horrible institution on American society can still be seen.  For people to fully understand and recover from this painful past, these stories must be told and retold, so that their lessons can be fully assimilated.  There is also a sense, however, that these stories must not be dwelt upon too heavily, for they are haunted.
The Valley of Eden
	I sat on a large, rocky outcropping and looked down into the valley below.  A vast expanse of trees stretched out before me, coating the mountain side and gracefully curving into the valley below.  I was in Green Mountain Falls, Colorado, and not entirely by my own will.  I would have been content to stay at home, with my friends and my computer to keep me occupied.  But of course, my parents insisted on a family vacation to a place we'd been more than enough, in my opinion.  However, this view had arrested me with its quiet wonder and I savored the solitude.
	At my family's urging, I turned around and headed down the opposite side of the mountain.  The top of this relative peak was covered in soft, brown, grass-less soil and dotted with large boulders that begged to be climbed and conquered.  The slight slope was meant to be pranced down as it was littered with rocks, roots and ruts.  Tall, scraggly conifers with pale bark and nearly trunks so thin they were barely noticeable shaded the incline from the proud sun.  Between the ruts and roots and mud a shallow indention identified itself as a trail, beckoning the hiker down into the valley below.
	As I begrudgingly walked farther and farther from my previous perch and entered a grove of closely spaced trees and thick foliage, my dad informed me that the valley we were entering was called the Valley of Eden.  The path was now framed by low hanging, leafy branches that blocked the sun except for small sporadic splotches.  It had come to be surrounded by something like a miniature rain forest.  The vegetation around the base of  the trees was thick enough so as to be mysterious, giving the impression that what could be seen from the path was but an incomplete glimpse of an environment teeming with life.  Unseen birds fluttered and small animals scampered around our feet, allowing but a brief glimpse of themselves.  Off to the side of the path, barely visible but clearly audible, a quietly giggling stream sliced through the heavy undergrowth.  The path snaked along, generally following the stream, until the Amazonian imitator loosened its grip on the path and released it into a large field.
	The field was covered in flowers.  Flowers of all different colors were scattered all across the field, as if mother nature herself had carried them in her cloak like Juan Diego had the roses of the Virgin of Guadalupe, and then tossed them across this field with one dramatic flourish.  Bees patrolled just beyond the edges of the path, keeping its followers from straying and inevitably crushing the beautiful plants.  Beyond the field on either side of the path, the mountainsides reestablished themselves, in some places as sheer cliffs, in others as gradual, rocky inclines inviting the intrepid hiker.  The stream had also made its way through the thick vegetation that began the valley and now ran more calmly alongside the flora.  Its course could now be seen as opposite our own, and we followed the trail towards a more urgent and mottled rushing sound farther ahead.
	As the sound became louder we saw its source.  The original stream was just an offshoot of a larger creek.  Just beyond where it split it two was a small waterfall where the creek poured over a slight yet sudden decrease in elevation.  Trunks of fallen trees and rocks the size of baby carriages impeded the creek in its brief slide.  Lush vegetation surrounded the creek, offsetting the rush of cool water with a green trim.  A few large boulders were more unceremoniously placed in the creek's path.  They were just pockmarked enough to offer an interesting climbing challenge.
	My family chose a spot just separated from the rushing water by one of these boulders as a good place to stop for lunch.  A small, relatively calm pool that was slowly fed by the rushing creek on the other side of the boulder separated where we sat from the boulder which had offered us shelter.  Once I had eaten I jumped over the serene pool and took to conquering the boulder which had offered us shelter.  Away from my family now, I hopped from boulder to boulder and found a spot higher than those surrounding it and sat.  I gazed back down at the field coated in flowers, savoring its beauty.
A Difficult Decision
	Choosing a college major is not easy.  Some people seem to have known what they want to do with their life since they were born, like my friend majoring in biochemistry.  Others fall into a major reluctantly and seem embarrassed by their choice, like a religious studies major I know.  For everyone who completes an undergraduate education, choosing a degree program is an important decision.  For me, it has not been straightforward.
There are many considerations to take into account when choosing a major.  Elders often ask what you are going to do with your major and for a long time I wanted a clear career path laid out for me after college.  In moments of insecurity and uncertainty concerning my future prospects I still consider this.  But a large part of me wants to major in something less clearly geared towards a certain profession.  While this may be more risky when it comes to having a high-paying job right out of college, I feel like it will be a more personally rewarding way to spend these years.
Towards the end of high school I wanted to be a computer engineer.  I applied to engineering schools and took advanced science classes in preparation.  I had been doing well in my science classes, had great teachers, and believed that the most effective way of leaving my mark on the world was through technology.
About halfway through my senior year, after my college applications were mostly finished, I realized that I would rather work in the software industry.  I had some experience in programming and web design and computers had been a strong interest of mine since grade school.  I thought the culture of software development would be a comfortable fit, as well.
I ended up going to a liberal arts school in small-town Washington, officially undecided but planning on completing a five year program that would leave me with a B.A. in mathematics and a B.S. in computer science.  The rigidity of this program and the technicality of many of the classes, however, dissuaded me from continuing on this path.  Many of my friends were reading fascinating books for their classes and didn’t have to spend hours writing programs or doing problem sets.  The initial luster of the prospect of working for a software company in the Northwest was lost.
According to Paul Graham, a popular essayist among computer programmers, this change is common and easily explainable.  He says that because many people drop out of a math major for a computer science major and computer science majors almost never switch into math, math can be assumed to be more difficult.  By constructing “dropout graph[s],” he suggests, one can construct a list of majors by intellectual content.  The harder the major, the “more worth studying” it is (par. 25).  While he has a point, and I once agreed with him wholeheartedly, this reasoning no longer appeals to me.  It seems elitist at worst and highly biased at best; coming from someone who majored in philosophy in college with a minor in computer science and has since worked with computers for years, a high opinion of math is to be expected.  Simply because math is more difficult for many people does not necessarily mean it has greater intellectual content.  Also, Mr. Graham does not bother to cite sources, making his assertions even more suspect.
Still thinking about future job prospects, my focus wandered to biology, a subject that had always interested me but was never a central fascination.  Specifically, my interest in ecology, neuroscience, evolution and physiology grew.  In addition, a college senior I met and looked up to and many of my friends from high school were majoring in biology or something related.  After a personal incident persuaded me to transfer closer to home, I declared an ecology and evolutionary biology major and that is where I stand today.
Now, I haven’t taken a biology class since my freshman year of high school. Because I am a transfer student and got to register only two days before class started, I was not able to enroll in any classes related to my major and so am taking a wide array of classes to fulfill distribution requirements.  The only class that I am taking that has anything to do with my major, a geology class called History of the Earth, has been hit or miss, but mostly because I do not care much about rock types.  Because of this academic distance from the subject, I am not sold on my choice of major and may change again.  An interest and proficiency in language that developed in high school is coming back thanks to my introductory linguistics class, and if I could choose to do anything, all practical considerations aside, I think I would want to write science fiction.
What are the factors influencing major choice, outside of simple personal interest?  What outside factors statistically influence choice of major?  To start my research I visited Google, the ubiquitous search engine.  The simple search “college major” brought up sites advertising services that would help one choose a college major or give basic information about individual majors.  These seemed to be of limited use for my questions but maybe useful personally.  My next search was “college major percentages” and yielded more interesting results.  Google Book Search turned up a promising book called Higher Education: Handbook of Theory and Research.  The main focus of the research contained is gender and race representation in various major areas.  For white males in the top 25% of their high school class, a demographic to which I belong, there was a large positive correlation with majoring in science and engineering, making my initial choice quite typical.  This research is, however, somewhat dated.  Most of the studies done were conducted in the 1970s and demographics have surely changed since then.  The main contention of the researchers, however, that gender, race and social privilege are the most consistent and measurable indicators of college major choice, still seems accurate to a significant degree.
And what are the most popular majors?  According to the Princeton Review, the top ten most popular majors are Business, Psychology, Elementary Education, Biology, Nursing, Education, English, Communications, Computer Science and Political Science.  So, I switched into a more popular major.
What can I conclude from this research?  I am not alone in switching majors or in rejecting the major from which I switched.  While I still have my reservations about ecology and evolutionary biology, I feel a bit more comfortable with my choice now that I have done some research and written about my indecisiveness.  If nothing else, I should see an academic counselor to flesh out my options and feelings more fully.
Wicca and Neo-Paganism at KU
	Religion has been an interest of mine for a long time.  I suppose it started in my parochial Catholic grade school, when I first bought into what I was being taught about Jesus and heaven and morality.  I soon began to expect I was not getting a very well rounded education in this area however, when in middle school I first started hanging out with kids from the local public school.  One girl told me she was a practicing Wiccan.  Her favorite TV show was Buffy the Vampire Slayer and she believed vampires were real and we didn’t come in contact with them because we were not close to any gates to hell.  I was incredulous; I asked her what her parents thought about this and she told me they didn’t practice any religion and were supportive of her attendance at local coven meetings.  When I asked her what they did at these coven meetings, she said she couldn’t really tell me but that they performed magic.  I was skeptical, but was too curious and fascinated to judge her too much and we continued to talk and be friends.  A few years later I underwent my first reexamination of my religious views and ended up telling my horrified parents that I no longer believed in God and was now an atheist.  My incredibly conservative grandparents must have been flagellating themselves with whips of worry.  Ever since that proclamation my interest in other religions has grown, and before I took a world religions class in my junior year in high school I had already read the Tao Te Ching and the Baghavad Gita, and was familiar with all of the major world religions and their basic viewpoints, as well as some of the many fringe religious and spiritual movements, thanks to the vast resources available to me on the internet.  My teacher often deferred to me on matters she was uncertain of, which was strange but the considerable ego I had by then enjoyed it very much.
	This essay is about that small yet growing fringe religious movement that I first heard about from my middle school friend.  Wicca is the most prominent movement under the larger umbrella known as Neo-paganism, or Paganism, depending on who you read or talk to.  The word pagan, like many modern English words, comes from Latin, and originally means “of the country” and was used by Roman soldiers as a pejorative to refer to rural people, much like the word hick is used today.  These rural people were not as fast in converting to Christianity when Constantine made it the official religion of the Empire and so the word evolved to mean any non-Christian, still with negative connotation.  As religious scholarship in the West advanced this term came to be less applied to the so-called Great Religions and more to the animist and other polytheist belief systems of various native peoples, with the large exception of Hinduism thanks to their ancient literary tradition.  These days, people who are fed up with the dominant spiritual paradigms have reclaimed the word for their own spiritual and religious movements.  These movements include Wicca, Neo-Druidism, reconstructions of various ethnic polytheistic traditions, and others.  Many groups are quite eclectic in the source material they use for their rituals, spells and texts, combining elements from ancient Egypt and Greece with Celtic, Germanic and/or Slavic influences.  Others are more strict reconstructionists and have sharper limits on what is considered legitimate source material.  One less noble trend among these groups is fabricated folklore and history that is based only loosely on historical evidence in order to give a sense of the ancient to what are essentially modern creations.  However, the Neo-pagan movement does have legitimate roots dating back to the 18th century, and for many people who identify as Pagan the authenticity of the ideas is less important than the content and immediate implications of these ideas.
	A note on my biases, before I have a chance to observe and interview Neo-pagans in action – I assume that nearly all adherents to a modern form of paganism have a deep concern for the environment and at least a rudimentary understanding of ecology that translates into an attempt to live lightly on the land.   As a consequence I would expect many Neo-pagans to be vegetarian or vegan and hold left of center political views.  I also assume that they practice seemingly strange rituals but have no idea what these rituals would be like; they may be similar to the sort of spontaneous, spiritually motivated actions I have performed in the last few years in response to great stress and bad trips.  Personally, I still consider myself an atheist in the sense that I worship and believe in the separate existence of no gods, but I am open to the idea that religion can play a healthy role in a person’s life, provide an important sense of community and be a major source of fulfillment and spiritual nourishment.  I find many of the ideas and attitudes prevalent in the Neo-pagan movement attractive but am skeptical of any claims to magic.
	I have many questions for a Neo-pagan.  I would like to hear how they came to their current religion, first of all.  Also, the rituals they practice and the artifacts used are important.  Where and how often these rituals take place is also important.  While some of my assumptions should probably not be tested through direct questioning, other questions can respectfully broach such subjects.  Asking about how family and friends react to their paganism and how they respond to people’s negative views of their religion should reveal some interesting information.  Also, close attention will be paid to how welcoming and open they are towards me as an outsider and how they talk about outsiders.
Richard Coniff concludes that flies exist to clean up decay.  He asks how flies behave and what people's preconceptions about them are.  He finds that we associate them with filth and disease and, consequently, think they are disgusting.  However, in examining how the fly flies and their unique adaptations that serve them in their ecological niche, Coniff comes to respect the stereotypically repulsive insect.
	Scot Russell Sanders concludes with a contrived platitude.  In his essay he wanders around, seemingly lost, dropping in cliché after cliché.  He suffers from a poorly posed starting question that does not inspire creativity.
Villard blatantly mocks those who believe the moon landings were faked and clearly believes them to be lunatics or idiots.  However disparaging his descriptors, he must think they are worth refuting, if only because FOX aired a documentary exploring the idea.  He feels the suggestion of conspiracy to be not only stupid but an affront to all those who worked to make the moon landings a reality.  He is biased from the start and so his piece is a polemic.  While I agree with him that the moon landings were not faked, his tone seemed excessively derisive.  I suppose he thought a more civil tone would unacceptably lend the conspiracy credibility
The author's use of research is excellent.  He draws from a wide variety of sources and even evaluates some of his sources within his essay.  His tone, however, would be grossly inappropriate if applied to my topic.  His use of popular culture and contemporary analogies benefits his argument but sometimes comes across as elitist, as he makes some fairly obscure references and uses words from Latin, German and French that many readers may not know.  This is probably a reflection of the author pandering to his audience.
My Secret History
	This essay is much more personal than mine will be.  Also, telling the story of my research would not be nearly as engaging; personal examples, however, would be appropriate and should be used in conjunction with outside evidence.  This essay was difficult to read because, while her story is interesting, the level of self-absorption makes for tedious reading.
Anderson seems to attempt objectivity but fails.  She comes in with some mostly negative preconeptions that she shares with the reader throughout the first half of the essay.  I found myself strongly influenced by her negative attitude and convinced that her view of Mary Kay as a creepy, cultish cultural phenomenon is accurate.  I had some previous exposure to Mary Kay and similar schemes through my mom and aunts but had not given the subject much thought because of my young age at the time.  My personal bias against traditionalist Southern values made me more receptive to Anderson's characterization of the Mary Kay lifestyle.  It would arguably have been a less objective essay had Anderson bought into the business model.  Anderson makes Mary Kay seem like the most backward way for women to achieve financial independence.
My writing process hasn’t solidified, as far as I can tell.  Depending on what I’m writing and when I’m writing it the process is different.  In general, though, I start by clarifying my intentions.  If I’m writing for school this entails going over the assignment and then summarizing it in my own words.  Then I free-write, putting down my initial thoughts.  After that I let it sit for a while, depending on how much time I have.  I rarely outline anything; different parts of the essay come out at different times.  I write most of the piece in a few long sessions in front of a keyboard and take frequent reading breaks, referring back to sources or reading something unrelated.  If I’m having trouble concentrating in front of my computer, I will use a public computer or brainstorm in a notebook.  After I have the meat of the piece I start editing.  This pseudo-process works well for me even when writing feels like pulling teeth, which has become less common.
I have had more similar experiences than I'd like to admit.  For about a year and a half I was obsessed with psychedelic drugs.  The connection to ancient religious rituals and the counter-culture of the sixties, as well as the beautiful, fascinating descriptions of others' experiences drew me in.  At first, I responded to these potentially dangerous “snakes” well.  It was my senior year of high school and nearly everything was going my way.  Regardless, I had lost my religion a few years before and had been seeking ever since.  Tripping was spiritual; I could lose myself and feel connected to something divine.  This spiritual practice is manageable if done infrequently, and I know successful individuals, a medical student and a biochemist, who responsibly partake.  But as the author of “Snake Handling and Redemption” aptly notes, “madness and religion [are] a hair's breadth apart.”  I did not keep my experiences infrequent, nor did I keep to a structured ritual.  I sampled every hallucinogen I could get my hands on, including some rare compounds known to drug geeks as research chemicals.  Over the course of that year and a half I tripped 21 times, taking notes.  Foolishly, I ignored the bad experiences of a friend and written warnings directed at those with a family history of mental illness.  And I paid the price.  I had to leave college before my second semester ended.  I had fallen into a depressed mania – not sleeping, not eating, paranoid, hallucinating, delusional, and speaking incoherently.  Madness and religiosity are prevalent on both sides of my family, and I inherited a predisposition towards the former and a fascination with the latter.  So, I got bit, but survived.  The last year has been rough, but now I know myself better than I did, which, in a way, is what I set out to do in the first place, although I never imagined it would end the way it did.
I remember when this conflict was in the papers – I've seen this picture before.  A dead body on the streets of Haiti; from what I've read this is common.  The woman's casual gait and cool gaze seem to confirm that.  Americans are much more sensitive to violence than a vast majority of humanity.  If a dead body was found lying on Wescoe beach people would not regard it so casually.  The ghettos of Haiti are the worst in the Western Hemisphere.  Not sure exactly why, but it was a French colony and former French colonies tend to have bad track records, e.g. Vietnam.  Any situation involving the descendants of slaves tends to be tense and the situation in the US isn't much better in that regard.  The thing I least expected to say but said in my fast-write was the Vietnam connection – I wonder if I'm just over-generalizing or if there are other examples of horrific conflicts in former French colonies.  Overall, I felt the image was not terribly disturbing.  The woman's demeanor is more arresting than the dead body or trail of blood.  If I encountered this picture in the newspaper, I would wonder where it was taken.
This depends on context, but in general, yes.  If the disturbing image is directly related to the reported event and doesn't make the viewer physically sick then it can provide a good lead-in to the article.  For example, during the summer of 2000 I was on a vacation with my family and a USA Today was lying out when I got up for breakfast.  Not long before this I had become more interested in international affairs through reading Tom Clancy and Robert Ludlum.  On the front page of the paper was a picture of a Palestinian child with a nasty head wound being carried out of burning rubble by a shocked man.  This picture left an impression on me.  I read that article, and while my knowledge of the context in which that bombing took place was limited, I was motivated to learn more and still follow the Israeli-Palestinian conflict today.  While I was horrified at the time, I was not emotionally scarred but rather primed for greater awareness of an important international conflict.
I want to revise my latest paper because I feel my argument could be significantly strengthened.  The 300 example is not as well integrated as it could be and may need to be replaced.  I also want to make it more balanced but also be more critical of the media – or at least make my criticisms more persuasive and clear.  Also it has a lot of be verbs, prepositional phrases and adverbs that could be changed or culled.  Structure is OK but could be better.  Thesis still isn’t very clear and many paragraphs don’t have a clear topic sentence.  This and these are used to previously explained stuff a bit too much.
Audience is important because you need to express yourself in a way that they can understand.  So, in trying to communicate a message you may choose different words, organization, and sentence structures depending on your audience.  As Vonnegut says, reading is hard, and so if you want to be read you must make your writing as easy as possible for your intended audience to understand.  The interestingness of your writing depends heavily on style; its not just what you say but how you say it, as the cliché goes.  Writing with your audience in mind from the outset can save a lot of revision time.
Disturbing, Violent Imagery in American Media
	Besides reproducing, violence is what humanity does best.  The main attraction of successful blockbusters also plays a prominent role in religious canons.  Every day, news media companies dutifully report the latest incidents of violence around the world.  For those who do not live in war zones, such top-down communication is the main source of information on the conflicts that concern them.  But what constitutes a conflict of concern heavily depends on the consumers.  The employees of media conglomerates know this and inform accordingly.  An overly shocking piece of information, image, or video will not be published.  However, as the internet becomes more widespread and influential, traditional media outlets cannot afford to hold back too much.  They must tell their audience what important events have taken place, even if they are difficult to handle.  To appropriately disturb an American audience, editors need to invite controversy in order to capture the attention of people whose sensibilities are continually challenged by other forms of mass media.
	Different people are disturbed by different things.  Disturbing information causes anxiety, fear, or some other unpleasant change in mental state.  That which disturbs often implies human mortality or challenges basic cultural assumptions.  In their essay “Tragedy of the Common: Markedness and the Creation of Mundane Tragedy,” Stevphen Shukaitis and Rachel Lichtenfeld attempt to show “how the integration of images of tragedy and atrocity into daily life gradually move such events from highly marked occurrences to less visible occurrences” (471).  Towards the end of their discussion they explore how this process is used for political ends and the maintenance of normative values.  Sensory information influences thought processes and disturbing information can consequently inspire action.  How reporters select and present information plays an important role in how people perceive the reality the reporters attempt to capture.  For example, the press reported Saddam Hussein's crimes in the 80s and 90s, but, except for his invasion of Kuwait, they treated him like any other oppressive dictator.  In 2003, however, these crimes were brought to the public's attention as evidence that Hussein was willing to use any means necessary to hurt his enemies, regardless of international conventions.  Coupled with the flawed intelligence that Hussein's regime was actively pursuing a nuclear bomb, had stockpiles of chemical weapons, and supported al-Qaida, the American public largely backed the invasion of Iraq.
	While the Iraq war divided the country before it began, supporters started to question the Bush administration’s motives as the war progressed.  The photographs from Abu Ghraib prison played an important role in this process and are some of the most disturbing images from the Iraq war.  Taken by a soldier with a digital camera, they show scenes of Americans torturing Iraqi prisoners in ways that would undoubtedly constitute cruel and unusual in the United States.  A widely shown picture from this set can be seen in Figure 1 on the attached page.  More shocking images from Abu Ghraib were shown on television, including scenes of physical torture and smiling American soldiers in front of abused inmates.  Unpublished from this same set were pictures of blindfolded prisoners being demeaned and sexually humiliated.  Further investigation revealed that the C.I.A. and military intelligence encouraged such tactics in order to break the prisoners’ spirits (Hersh 2).
	Elaborating on the content of the photo collection and American use of torture in the War on Terror is beyond the scope of this essay, as the most shocking of these images were never widely shown.  A visual analysis of the photo in Figure 1 demonstrates how an image can disturb the Western psyche and cause controversy without showing anything explicitly horrific.
	In this iconic photo, a male prisoner wears a black hood and black sheet, stands on a box, and holds his arms at shoulder level.  Electrical wires hang from his hands.  This is clearly a scene of torture.  The prisoner is barely clothed and kept blind by the hood.  Balancing on the box, his captors presumably shock him repeatedly, resulting in him falling to the floor.  Looking deeper, this image also contains serious symbolic baggage.  The black hood and sheet are reminiscent of the white robes and pointed hats of the Ku Klux Klan.  Looked at with this in mind, the image can evoke thoughts of the American demon of racism manifesting itself in an evolved form.  The prisoner's pose evokes an even more powerful and international religious symbol.   Electrical wires replace the nails that held Jesus to his cross, reminding technophilic Westerners of the sinister side of civilization.  These two provocative but subtle pictorial associations destroy any illusion that the moral high ground belongs to the United States.
	Before the Abu Ghraib scandal, there was still a sense that maybe the US was doing something good in Iraq.  While the administration changed the focus of its rhetoric from protecting America from weapons of mass destruction to liberating the oppressed Iraqi people, faith in American superiority remained.  Abu Ghraib’s sobering implications took a while to sink in and never did for some – according to a Pentagon survey conducted in September 2006, over a third of American soldiers believe torture is sometimes justified (“Contaminated” par. 2).  After the torture discussion in the press revealed the callous attitudes of Bush’s cabinet and many resigned, the coverage of the war became less intense; people pay less attention when their side is not clearly in the right.
	The photo chosen for analysis is, admittedly, an exceptional case.  Though traditionally liberal media outlets covered Abu Ghraib extensively, televised coverage of the war has not been as critical.  The New York Times recently published a lengthy article by an investigative reporter examining how military analysts who appeared on broadcast television, cable news and NPR were often defense lobbyists and military contractors.  So, the people widely-trusted news outlets deferred to on-air for objective perspectives on the war stood to personally profit from the conflict and worked closely with the Department of Defense to actively sell the war.  According to Media Matters, a web-based, not-for-profit media research and information center, those mentioned in the article appeared or were quoted on spoken newscasts 4,500 times since January 1, 2002 (“Military” par. 1).
	As this shocking information and Lichtenfeld and Shukaitis's essay make clear, the assumptions and desires of the established institutional order permeate the news.  Television, magazines, newspapers, movies, literature, music, web sites and other forms of mass media and entertainment construct a consensus reality.  Most Americans do not risk disturbing encounters in their daily lives, so external media provide the most shocking visual information.  Horror movies, in particular, tend to push the limits of what is considered shocking.  It seems counter-intuitive, however, that people would deliberately frighten themselves.  Stephen King, in a short but persuasive essay entitled “Why We Crave Horror Movies,” explains the appeal of such movies – they allow people to confront and enjoy the morbid, nasty, and gruesome aspects of life from which movie-goers are often detached.  This is why “good liberals often shy away from horror films” (par. 12).  What King seems to ignore, however, is that paying attention to international affairs allows screen-watchers to confront horror as well.
Not surprisingly, horror films rarely carry as much political baggage as the nightly news.  If it is not explicit, it is normally implied who the “good guys” and “bad guys” are in each reported story.  Less people would watch the news if it were presented as senseless carnage.  News stories about American soldiers protecting the land of the free overseas borrow conventions from Hollywood action movies and vice versa.  
	Around the time Iran was scrutinized by the UN on suspicion of a covert nuclear weapons program and John McCain sang “Bomb bomb bomb, bomb bomb Iran,” the movie 300 was released.  It is loosely based on the battle of Thermopylae, in which a group of three hundred Spartan soldiers held off a much larger invading Persian force for three days.  The movie was criticized in the press for its portrayal of the ancient Persians, who are the ancestors of modern day Iranians.  Based on a comic book of the same name, the movie portrayed the Greeks as stereotypically masculine and militaristic.  While the Spartans probably looked more like modern-day Egyptians, the actors chosen to play them are a cross-section of Euro-Americans.  The Persians, on the other hand, were portrayed as monsters and led by an androgynous, hedonistic giant.  Even though, as Slavoj Žižek notably pointed out, the movie correctly portrays the Persians as the imperialist aggressors, the differences between the opposing sides are heavily exaggerated (par. 2).  The dialogue directly appeals to American values with lines like “freedom isn’t free” while demonizing a group already perceived as Other.  Though it is no gorier than a typical R-rated action flick, the movie is not disturbing in any positive sense; it simply exploits and reinforces antagonistic cultural stereotypes during a time of tension – and comes troublingly close to propaganda.
If editors want to provoke thought and action critical of the established political order and compete with movies like 300 for the attention of American audiences, they must consider the implications of what they report and what it communicates to their audience.  They must also be wary of outside sources of information.  To effectively inform the only assumption necessary is that the audience is curious and able to follow a story told in everyday language.  To insure curiosity, disturbing information can be effective, but focusing on human stories can help offset the ennui caused by news from abroad and connect such news to viewers' lives.
Modern Americans are passive observers of large amounts of violence.  Their perception of real violence cannot help but be influenced by the narrative structures that frame Hollywood’s violent fantasies.  It is important that disturbing information continue to inform the public discourse.  Without it, the nation would lose its vitality and eventually stagnate.  Future generations need to be exposed to scenes of real violence in an informative context so they can come to terms with this part of life and become interested in the real conflicts of our world.  The case of the iconic picture from Abu Ghraib shows how images can undercut the passivity of jaded audiences and communicate a large amount of information without carnage or indecency.  Because the picture speaks to Westerners on a basic pictorial level, it has the potential to cut through the calluses created by previous images and cause people to think critically about the consequences of their government’s actions.
	I chose this paper to revise because I had more to say on the topic and felt I could improve my previous final draft.  I thought about revising my first essay because it would have been personally helpful to write about again, but I had already started on this paper and want to decide when I am not enmeshed in school.  In this paper I wanted to criticize mainstream media more harshly and make it clear that the coverage of Abu Ghraib and the photograph I analyzed were not typical.  I started by reading the graded paper and printing out another copy which I then attacked with a pen, restructuring sentences, questioning and changing word choice, switching from passive to active voice where appropriate.  Basically I tried to apply my understanding of the paramedic method of revision and the corrections made to the graded piece.  Then I went back to the original document file and enacted the changes from the hand-edited copy.  Then I re-read the graded copy again, noting the questions written in the margins and looked over the questions I had written for myself the copy I edited.  I then opened a separate document file containing notes from the original drafting (a new addition to my writing process) and wrote a list of things I needed to consider.  I also read through my notes, which contained scatterbrained, stream-of-consciousness rants along with nuggets of relevant wisdom.  I used a version of the sideshadowing method of revision, re-reading my edited essay and writing notes in my notes file.  Realizing I needed an extra source for what I wanted to add to the essay, I did some googling and found something that supported what I wanted to say frighteningly well.  I then tried to flesh out under-explained ideas and make my arguments and examples more clear and relevant.  Much of the rough drafting of these qualifications was done in my notes file.  After placing new material I had to smooth out rough transitions and integrate it into the rhythm and flow of the essay.  Throughout this process I reread paragraphs to make sure they worked as a cohesive whole, and less frequently reread the entire paper for the same purpose.  I only stopped editing when I wanted to think about something else.  This was the most extensive revision I've done on a paper and it drove home that any written document is heavily influenced by the context of its writing and so the revision process can go on ad infinitum.
Excellent Emilia
	In Shakespeare’s Othello, Emilia is the tragic hero of the play.  She, like all the other characters, does her part to further Iago’s plot.  However, in the end, she sacrifices herself to make sure the truth is revealed, her mistress’s honor remains intact and her husband is brought to justice.
	In her first appearance, Iago, her husband, presents her as a nagging wife who seems harmless but has a penchant for scolding, even if she does not always voice her critical opinions.  She speaks little and keeps in the background, quickly letting Desdemona take the spotlight away from her.  However, Desdemona is clearly quite fond of Emilia as she vehemently defends her from her husband’s attacks on her character. 
	Emilia establishes herself as a socially intelligent, loyal servant in her next appearance.  Cassio has been discharged from his post for a violent drunken rampage and is trying to win back his post and Othello’s favor.  Iago, as part of his grand scheme, suggests that he talk to Emilia in order to gain access to Desdemona.  Upon meeting Cassio, Emilia is supportive and reassuring, telling him that “[Othello] protests he loves you, and needs no other suitor but his likings to bring you in again.”  When Cassio insists on meeting with Desdemona, Emilia accommodates his wishes.  In the exchange that ensues, Emilia speaks little and assumes her usual subordinate role, only interjecting to relate how she thinks her husband feels responsible for the situation and to alert Desdemona that Othello has arrived.
	However, Emilia shows that she is probably too accommodating of her husband in her next entrance.  She allows Iago to take Desdemona’s handkerchief.  This handkerchief is highly important to Desdemona as it was the first gift given her by Othello.  Iago has apparently been pressuring her to steal it for some time, and when she discovers it he shows up and snatches it from her.  Emilia questions his motives but he brushes her off and tells her to go away.  She has no reason to suspect what Iago is planning to do with the handkerchief, and so can hardly be faulted for bowing to her husband’s desires.
	She can be faulted, however, for lying to Desdemona about the handkerchief, which she blatantly does in her next appearance.  Immediately following this exchange, Othello reveals his jealousy to Desdemona for the first time.  Emilia effectively counsels her mistress after Othello’s outburst.  Her view of men is that they are difficult to really know and are to women as stomachs are to food.  Also, she ruminates on the nature of jealousy; “Jealous souls are not ever jealous for a cause, But jealous for they’re jealous.  It is a monster Begot upon itself, born on itself.”  Desdemona is moved to pursue Othello and attempt to talk with him, which is the best course of action she could take in that situation.
	In her first appearance in Act IV, Emilia defends Desdemona’s honor from Othello’s jealous accusations.  She goes so far as to “[l]ay down [her] soul at stake” in asserting that Desdemona is true to him.  Unfortunately, this does not sway Othello and he confronts Desdemona, his mind already made up about her fidelity.  After this confrontation, Emilia sympathizes with Desdemona and explains the situation to Iago.  Fascinatingly, she comes to an impressive realization; “I will be hanged if some eternal villain […] Have not devised this slander,” she fumes and goes on to attack the manipulator even further in her following lines.  This is the first time in the play when any character recognizes the fruits of Iago’s schemes for what they are.  Still, however, she does not connect her husband to the affair, even when she references Iago’s previous suspicions that she had an affair with Othello.
	In the next scene, Emilia once again shows herself to be a loving servant of Desdemona.  She puts the wedding sheets on the bed as asked, and chides Desdemona when she speaks of an imminent death.  Then an interesting discussion takes place.  Desdemona asks Emilia if women mistreat their husbands in ways similar to how Othello has been treating her.  Emilia answers with certainty that some do.  Desdemona then asks if Emilia would do any such thing “for all the world.”  To her surprise, Emilia answers that she would, saying that “it is a great price for a small vice.”  She continues to justify her answer with the logic that if one gained the whole of this earthy realm for one misdeed, one could change the rules of the world after the fact to make it right.  When Desdemona expresses doubt that women who would do such a thing exist, Emilia launches into her most interesting speech in the play.  She says that husbands are responsible for their wives’ failings.  Women have the same frailties as men do, and when men, who in the culture of Shakespeare’s time were superior to women socially, give in to those weaknesses, women follow their example.
	In the final climatic scene of the play, Emilia’s acts heroically and defies her own speech.  After being sent from the scene of Roderigo and Cassio’s altercation to inform Othello of what happened, Emilia arrives in Desdemona’s bedroom.  There she finds Othello and a nearly dead Desdemona.  After Desdemona dies without revealing Othello as her murderer, Othello condemns her and boasts of his guilt.  This sends Emilia into a righteous rage and through repeated questioning she begins to uncover her husband’s part in the murder.  Instead of following her husband’s example as according to her speech she should, she says “I care not for thy sword; I’ll make thee known, Though I lost twenty lives,” and begins shouting for help.  When Iago and the others arrive, Emilia directly confronts her husband.  When he admits that he told Othello that Desdemona was false with Cassio, Emilia reveals to them all Othello’s murderous deed.  Despite her husband’s numerous commands and threats, she insists that she will not leave nor hold her tongue.  When Othello uses Cassio’s possession of Desdemona’s handkerchief to justify his suspicions, Emilia immediately tells what actually happened, even though it proves her husband’s guilt.  Othello realizes that she is telling the truth and tries to attack Iago but is disarmed and Iago stabs Emilia.  All but Othello go to chase after the fleeing Iago, leaving Emilia singing the song Desdemona sang when she predicted her own death earlier that night.  Her last words are “So come my soul to bliss as I speak true.  So speaking as I think, alas, I die.”  
	In this final scene, Emilia shows she is willing to stand up for the truth and protect the honor of her mistress, even in the face of her own guilty husband and a menacing Moor who just killed said mistress.  Indeed, she is slain because of her courageous defense of the truth and her mistress’s honor.  In the final scene, she takes what power she has and uses it, after being a subordinate and bending to the will of others for the entire play.  She does not succumb to her husband’s failings as she says all women do.
Othello, on the other hand, even though he was manipulated, allowed himself to be.    He allowed jealousy to consume him and did not confront Desdemona until he was convinced of her guilt.  While Emilia was not as smart as Iago, nor as pure of heart as Desdemona, she shows a strong moral character in a time of intense crisis and loses her life for it, in the manner of a true hero.
Notes on Troilus and Cressida:
Greeks and Trojans portrayed as extremely similar
Trojan war shown to be a petty spat between ruling classes
Troilus and Cressida’s relationship paralleled with Helen and Paris’
Achilles accused of pride, though if they were more favorable they’d call it melancholy (quote tie into Hamlet)
Huge speeches by famous Illiadic figures reveal a lot about Shakespeare: thoughts on the “gawds” and the transience of glory and action and other heavy topics; see Ulysses -- these are quite like Hamlet and Othello’s soliloquies, but they’re addressed to others
Shows Shakespeare’s reliance on sources from European literature and how he reinterprets them
Problem play: what does this mean? Doesn’t fit neatly into any genre, though it has tragic, comedic and historic elements
Pandarus hooking up T&C reminiscient of Taming the Shrew, Much Ado, 

TEACH THIS PLAY BECAUSE ITS VAGUE AND AMBIGUOUS AND STUDENTS CAN INTERPRET IT SO MANY WAYS ITLL BE FUN!

	Shakespeare writes plays, play-acting, and theatrical devices and allusions into his plays. For Hamlet, The Mousetrap’s “the thing Wherein I’ll catch the conscience of the King” (2.2.605-6). A Midsummer Night’s Dream also contains a play -- “A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus And his love Thisbe; very tragical mirth” (5.1.56-7). In The Taming of the Shrew, the courtships of Bianca and Kate have but “come to play a pleasant comedy” for a captive drunk who himself accepts an offered role. 
	These plays within a play help clarify the main plots by bringing the audience deeper into the story, summarizing what has happened up to that point and foreshadowing what is to come. Or in the case of Taming, the audience is mocked, in a way, and surprised by the connections, differences, parallels, and suggestions made by the reference to the real context in which they find themselves. 
	Play-acting within major plot-lines permeates Shakespeare’s plays. Iago constantly acts in order to further his plot. Bianca’s suitors don costumes and assume identities in order to court her. Friends pretend Biatrice and Benedick love each other in order to bring them together. 	
	All these allusions to the theater imply that “life is a stage,” and bring attention to the roles each person inhabits each day. 
	David Bevington did not include Troilus and Cressida in his 3rd edition of Necessary Shakespeare. His choice is understandable. The play does not fit neatly into any of the genre’s into which Bevington divides his selections. It retells the presumably historic events of the Trojan war, but strays from the Iliad -- the title plot line is not found in Homer’s epic. Though the title characters become romantically involved their romance soon dissolves. This dissolution might be tragic except for the attitudes of those involved. And comedy runs throughout the play but hardly permeates it. This seeming chaos would probably explain Bevington’s choice to exclude it from his textbook.
	But the play is all the more interesting and challenging for this chaos, and ties together many threads found in Shakespeare’s collected works.
	The prologue speech by a man in armor sets the stage on the plains of Troy but informs the audience that the action will start in the middle of the story, skipping “the vaunt and firstlings of those broils” (27). The prologue sketches the impetus for the war but its grandiloquent language and gloss of Western literature’s founding epic seems to imply this play aims for a more sober, learned audience.
	Yet sexual innuendo peppers the first lines. The title’s Troilus, describing himself as “weaker than a woman’s tear” and “Less valiant than the virgin in the night,” confides to Pandarus his disinterest in the war due to his stolen heart (9,11). Pandarus advises he be patient in a serious of baking metaphors: “grinding,” “bolting,” “kneading” and “leavening.” Such bawdiness reveals itself also in the jealous speeches of Othello, Hamlet’s flirtations, the tavern banter in Henry IV and, of course, the comedies. So Troilus and Cressida starts on a familiar note, trashing the lofty tone of the prologue.
	[Troilus, though, seems removed from Pandarus’ physical fixation. His feelings towards Cressida verge on worship. He pines, his 
	The next scene sees Pandarus singing the praises of Troilus to Cressida as the warriors return to Troy after a day on the battlefield. Pandarus continues his suggestive jests and Cressida seems less idealistic in her responses. Her scene-ending speech suggests a more resigned ]
	The lofty tone returns in the first scene involving the Greek nobles. Long-winded speeches comprise the majority of the scene. Ulysses gets some of the best lines. 
When I was in beginning college I wanted to transcend space and time. 
I thought that brains worked like computers.
When I was in high school I used to play computer games. I start with consoles but moved to serious gaming on the computer and built my own rig for it. I played games like Counter-Strike where you play as a terrorist or counter-terrorist and try to kill all the members of the other team. I played games where I was a Jedi, saving the universe by sabering droids. I played a game where I was an elf messiah-figure sent to defeat an evil force that ruled an island inhabited by magic and cat- and lizard-people.

When I was beginning college I spent most of my leisure time buying, taking, and eventually selling illegal drugs. Starting in the last year of high school I tried the classic counter-cultural trifecta of pot, mushrooms, and acid. My cousin and best friend helped me acquire the drugs and took them with me. The most affecting experiences we had together tended to fall on major holidays: he and his older brother coached me through my first time smoking pot on Father’s Day in a beach condo garage, my most dramatic and memorable mushroom trip took place at the Plaza in Kansas City on Thanksgiving after a big family dinner, and I have never had a more surreal 4th of July than the one I shared with him and two other friends on acid. 
I wanted to transcend space and time
I thought that brains worked like computers.

	When I was a freshman in college I used to sell drugs to people in my dorm. I had the best hook-up in my small dorm at my small liberal arts school. My suppliers were seniors who lived in a house off-campus whom I had met at a party the second week of school. They weren’t keen on meeting new people, so when my party friends from the dorm wanted drugs I played the middle-man. At first, I only made my friends pay the same price I paid. We would typically take the drugs together to party or contemplate life, the universe, and everything. We started out with psychedelics and pot, but the gateway was open and my suppliers had access to a mind-boggling array of chemicals.
	The first drug outside the psychedelic realm that my friends and I decided to try out was ecstasy. I was familiar with all the classic psychedelics by the time I entered college and I wanted to try something new. Some of my more green friends, recently acid-tested, were ready to take the plunge as well. The problem with ecstasy is that it is notoriously impure and can be cut with anything from caffeine to heroin. My suppliers promised that their suppliers, who they had met on the internet, could ship them pure MDMA, the original ecstasy, from the Netherlands. This sounded good to me, so I put in an order.
	The experiment was a success. The pills tested as within the small chemical family of MDMA. We took the pills, found ecstasy doesn’t mesh too well with drunken rock concerts, and ended up back at the dorm. People on MDMA characteristically talk openly to almost anyone about almost anything. By the time the effects wore off everyone who had come through the dorm lounge had been well greeted and many had stayed to laugh and talk with us. Of course it came out that we were rolling, as it’s called, sparking some debated about drug use that we were only too happy to indulge. If our drug experiments had been under the radar before, the word was now out, not only about us but also about me.
	
They buried her on Sunday. She was thirteen.
“Drug News” by Jimmy Koppen
	When I was a freshman in college I used to sell drugs. I had the best hook-up in my small dorm at my small liberal arts college in south-eastern Washington. My suppliers were seniors who lived in a house off-campus whom I had met at a party the second week of school. They weren’t keen on meeting new people, so when my friends from the dorm wanted drugs for a party I played the middle-man. At first, I made my friends pay the same price I paid. We would take drugs together to party or contemplate life, the universe, and everything. We started out with psychedelics, but the gateway was open and my suppliers had access to a mind-boggling array of chemicals.
	The first drug outside the psychedelic realm that my friends and I decided to try was ecstasy. I was familiar with all the classic psychedelics by the time I entered college and I wanted to try something new. Some of my more green friends, recently acid-tested, were ready to take the plunge as well. The biggest problem with ecstasy is that it is often impure and can be cut with anything from caffeine to heroin. We wanted pure. My suppliers said that they could order pure MDMA, the original ecstasy, online from the Netherlands. They’d come through before, so I put in an order.
	The experiment was a success. The pills tested as within the small chemical family of MDMA. We took the pills, found ecstasy doesn’t mesh too well with drunken rock concerts, and ended up back at the dorm. People on MDMA characteristically talk openly to almost anyone about almost anything. By the time the effects wore off everyone who had come through the dorm lounge had been well greeted and many had stayed to talk and laugh with us. Of course it came out that we had taken ecstasy, sparking some debate about drug use that we were only too happy to indulge. If our drug experiments had been under the radar before, the word was now out, not only about us but also about me.
	After that, newer friends and acquaintances from around the dorm started inquiring about acid, ecstasy, and pot. Intramural basketball teammates, co-workers at College Tech Services, classmates and people I’d met watching movies or eating in the dorm all asked. At first I sold to them at price, as I had with my close friends. I was too receptive; glad to help, I’d say. Eventually my positive attitude soured. Dorm social life had become more interesting since I’d began supplying but it was taking a toll on me in terms of time and money. Not to mention, I had my own weekend habits to support. Fronting money I made at my campus job got to be too risky as my orders got bigger.
	Marking-up the drug prices caused some anger. One of my best friends, who called everyone “comrade,” wrote “FUCK THE CAPITALIST MACHINE” on a poster in the lounge when I marked up his order. The social dynamics surrounding my situation were beyond my moronic, drug-addled freshman brain. 
	One Friday night I came back to my first floor dorm-room and my friend Stazh followed me in from the lounge. She looked worried:
	“Were you hanging out with Adam at all tonight?”
	“No, I haven’t seen him.”
	“Carrie and Galen just took him to the health center.”
	“Damn, what happened? Too much jug wine?”
	“Yeah, they were partying up in Galen and Chris’ room but I heard he smoked pot and took some ecstasy too and got really fucked up.”
	A couple weeks back I had sold Adam some pot and Chris some ecstasy. Adam was a co-worker of mine, considerate, soft-spoken, and a light pot smoker.
	Stazh and I went back to the lounge and into the chatter.
	“I heard him throwing up in the bathroom; he sounded awful!”
	“I just can’t believe he did that! It just really doesn’t sound like him.”
	“Is he all right? What happened?”
	“Why can’t people just have fun without drinking and taking drugs?”
	“Yeah, where’d he get the ecstasy?”
	Eyes fell on me:
	“I didn’t sell him any. Chris bought some last weekend but I thought they’d taken it all.”
	Amelia, who lived across the hall from Chris and Galen, backed me up:
	“I was there for a little while and I didn’t hear anything about taking ecstasy. I don’t think they did.”
	My mind was reeling:
	“I hope not, that could really fuck you up.”
	I went up to the section where Chris and Adam lived. The only people I found there knew no more than the people in the lounge.
	I talked to Adam the next day when he came back from the health center. He hadn’t taken any ecstasy. Thankfully, it was just a rumor.
	After that I stopped selling. I still bought for special occasions, but the incident served as a reality check. My hazy ignorance gave way to paranoia. The potential consequences of what I had been doing were made real, if only for one doubt-filled night.
	“” by Jimmy Koppen
	I drank from the drinking fountain near the corner of the hallway by the bathrooms. We were switching back to homeroom after going to the other fourth grade classroom for math. It was the end of passing period and no one else was in the halls.
	I heard a taunt from behind me. Someone else was in the hall. It was Andy. I hated him. He always picked on me. After fighting with Andy for years my temper had started to cool but if he tried hard enough he could still stoke my temper. He was going through his usual list of insults. I kept drinking but in the pan of the drinking fountain I could see my face had started to turn red. I tilted my head to the left and let Andy see my narrowed eyes and set jaw. I stopping slurping and started to turn back toward Andy and our classroom.
	He said something mean about my mom. I can’t remember what but it was a new one for Andy. He saw my face get even redder and my eyes burn. Andy bounced on the balls of his feet and started to turn with his satisfied squeak. I started after him. Andy ran faster. I ran faster. We were through the classroom door and Andy started to slow down. I didn’t. Right when we were in front of Mrs. Boyer’s desk my out-stretched hands caught up to Andy. I pushed him into the empty desk at pod two. He fell shoulder-first into the chair and desk but only the chair gave way and the other three kids at the pod jumped up as their desks shook.
	Mrs. Boyer was about my height, old and squat. She grabbed me by the arm and dragged me outside the classroom, a few feet to the left of the door so no one in the classroom could hear us. Sounds of reaction had just begun to sputter into the hall. I was heaving and a few hot tears were running down my face.
	“Jimmy, this is unacceptable,” Mrs. Boyer said.
	I choked back a sob.
	“What got into you? What happened?”
	Mrs. Boyer seemed taller than usual. She stuck out her tongue to wet her lips like she always did. Her tongue was a fat dry orangish pink sponge with deep cracks on the sides that made her look like a dehydrated lizard. By now my anger had melted into shame.
	“You can’t fight like this anymore, Jimmy.”
	“I . . . didn’t mean . . . he . . .”
	“It’s all right. But if something like this happens again, you’re going to the principal’s office and you’ll have to start seeing the counselor again. Next time I won’t be so nice.”
	I lowered my head, heaving less but eyes still burning. Mrs. Boyer had returned to her normal height. I followed her back into the classroom and sat down at my desk and stared at it for the rest of the day.

	It was August and it was humid and it was hot. Inside the air conditioner was running, but Dad wouldn’t set it lower than eighty so I was wearing a big tee shirt and long basketball shorts. I had just finished watching Spiderman and was playing the football game on the old Apple II computer my Dad brought home from work. David walked in. David is my cousin, my mom’s nephew. He was staying at our house because we lived a block away from his high school and his parents lived forty minutes away by car. He was a freshman and trying out for the football team. They had been having practice before and after school. He smelled like he had been mowing the lawn all day and looked angry and sad and dirty. I wanted to play football and be like him. I had to get up to let him by because the computer chair was too close to the sofa and was blocking his way. He ignored me and went to take a shower.

		The next week Andy and I were in the counselor’s office. We had been exchanging insults in the halls and threatening violence so the teachers had begun supervising the students when we went to the drinking fountain and bathrooms. After a particularly nasty exchange that escalated to pushing before it was broken up we were sent to work out our differences. I knew the counselor well. Or rather, the office well. There had been a younger woman there last year but she left. The new counselor was older and more experienced. She had worked with each of us individually before and been frustrated. Now we were in there together and she must have been desparate for some breakthrough. We talked about our home lives. Both our parents fought. Andy’s family was much more disfunctional than mine, I found. He would get beat. I would get spanked, but he would get beat up. His dad, and then his stepdad, would just wail on him. 

	Spiderman was over and it was time to do homework. I still hadn’t changed out of my school uniform because Spiderman started right after I got home from school and I wasn’t going to miss any of Spiderman just to change my clothes. I took my backpack into the dining room and got out my worksheets. Mom was making a casserole in the kitchen. I sat at the table facing the kitchen with my back to the wall so I could see her as well as she could see me. As I defined vocabulary words and did multiplication tables I could hear the knife on the cutting board, the water falling into the sink from the faucet, the creak of the oven door opening and closing, the timer turning to the time the recipe book suggested.
	I finished my homework and my mom told me to go upstairs and change my clothes so I didn’t stain my white uniform shirt at dinner. After I took off my uniform I laid down on my bed on my stomach with my chin resting on the edge of the bed so I stared at the floor. I heard my sisters in the next room, arguing over whose clothes were whose.
	
	After I found out about Andy’s home life our fights stopped. He still would try to make me angry and we’d exchange words but it wouldn’t go beyond that. He started to give up after I said some hurtful words and other kids stepped in to take his place in my life and mine in his. I never mentioned his home life in class. 
	I saw the abuse for myself, diluted in the parking lot after school. He went to after school care and I had been in detention for talking back to one of the teachers. His mom came to pick him up. She seemed angry at what he had said and she grabbed him by the scruff of his neck and dragged him out to the car. He yelped the whole way. 

	We lived on High Drive in a stone ranch house. The yard was big, long and narrow like a football field. The people behind us had a huge lot with woods in the back but I wasn’t supposed to go back there because they had mean dogs. Most of our neighbors were old people who had pets and didn’t go outside much. There were some kids down the block at the bottom of the creek bed but I wasn’t allowed to play with them because they were older and into drugs. So I played by myself or with my sisters when we weren’t angry at each other. I had grown a lot that year and wasn’t short anymore, just lanky. I wanted to be a defensive lineman so I could sack the quarterback and celebrate afterwards like Warren Sapp on the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. They had the coolest uniforms and were awesome because their mascot is a pirate. 
	I would go outside and play in the front yard even though my mom didn’t like me to because she thought I would get abducted. I would line up and get down into a three-point stance like the yard was a football field and after the down-set-hike I would burst off the line and swing my arm up like I was blowing past the offensive lineman and go in for the sack, shoulder down and arms swinging up. My dad pulled in the driveway and I told him I was playing defensive end and he looked like he wasn’t as excited about it as I was. My mom came out and told us to come inside for dinner. Afterwards we would go back outside and throw the football around until it got dark and it was time for him to get out his papers from his briefcase and start working again.

	About a year later I was bored at home. My mom was busy with dinner and keeping my sisters in line by yelling at them from the bottom of the stairs. Nothing was on TV and I had just spent my thirty minutes on AOL for the day. I snuck out into the front yard and sat down on the steps and stayed perfectly still. I started to notice more and more around me as time passed. Birds and squirrels in the trees, bugs in the flower bed next to me, the varieties of plants, a chipmunk that wandered close, a bird that alighted closeby. I got up and walked down to the woods around the creek, feeling close to nature. In the distance I saw some kids behind some scraggly evergreen trees. It smelled faintly of burning tires, though I’d never smelled that before. Andy was there, with my neighdbors who lived on the creek. They were giggling and passing something around. They noticed me and got quiet for a second.
	“Oh, it’s just that little spoiled brat form up the hill.”
	I didn’t say anything, just looked at them and wondered what they were doing. They asked me if i wanted a hit. I thought that meant they wanted to fight so I said sure and raised my fists. They laughed and told andy to oblige me. He came at me, but the weed had fried his wig. We tussled and eventually I slammed him into a tree. The neighbord s were lauging, hooting, slapping themselves. I felt bad for Andy then, seeing him crying outside of school, whining in his high voice that got him so much shit at school. He didn’t have any friends or family really, just people who abused him for fun. I helped him up and he pushed me away crying and walked back towards my still-laughing neighbors.

	After that Andy and I avoided each other. He left at the end of the year to go to public middle school. There was a girl that came to replace Andy as the popular subject of ridicule. She had a venom tongue and her hair was falling out. People said she was pulling it out and I believed them. She was carzy and no one liked her because she was mean back. I didn’t blame her but joined in the fun. I drew a picture of her beloved chiuauas dead and bloody by the hand of a masked assailant. It was popular but afterwards I felt like there was something wrong with me.

	She was gone for a a week and I thought she had left like Andy had. But she’d been on a pilgrimage to Eastern Europe with her family. She came back with pictures that all the teachers hailed as miraculous. When she was there some nuns had a vision of the Virgin Mary appearing above the town. Jessica had pointed her camera at the spot where the nuns said they saw Mary and took pictures. In the developed pictures the Virgin appeared as she always did in our books and in religous icons, arms outstretched. These were film photos from a disposable camera, and they seemed real, passed around by the teachers as evidence our faith was real and jusitifed. I didn’t believe it. I didn’t belive someone as bitter and mean as Jessica could be belessed with such a revelation. It was too unreal, too beautiful and divne and perfect. She must have faked them somehow to win favor. I still don’t know what to think of those photos. What was going on over there in eastern europe? My mom and other family memebers had been to the same place and didn’t bring back miraculous pictures. What made her so special? There had been a war there, a genocidal war, the kind of thing that fascinated me as an eleven year old Tom Clancy reader. The world seemed like hell. Maybe we can’t get out but hope makes the flames seem farther away, more an illusion than an inevitable eternity. Even if we invent gods then our technologies will play along.

	I realized I don’t know enough to be mean. We were just making up stories at each other, creating drama where there need be and would be and was none. I realized I could give people the benefit of the doubt, create stories that made sense where they were good, like they did in their heads, and we could create something greater and better out of that mutual respect and understanding that followed from the good stories we invented and constantly revised.
“Hero Movie” by Jimmy Koppen
	When you work with someone who talks all the time about everything, you learn to listen and make the appropriate noises at the appropriate times. That was Matthew’s conclusion, anyway. Justin and Matthew work as ushers at a movie theater in an upscale shopping district. Justin talks constantly. Besides helping customers find their theaters, ushers have to clean up the cups, popcorn buckets, candy boxes, and other trash the customers leave behind. Justin and Matthew wait for Superman Returns to let out and then they go into the theater with their trash bags.
	“You see those girls walking out?” Justin asks.
	“Yeah,” says Matthew, “they looked good.”
	“Damn fine,” Justin says. “I haven’t had sex in way too long.”
	Matthew opened his mouth as if to speak and looked uncomfortable.
	“You know I lost my virginity when I was eleven years old,” Justin says, “eleven years old, just playin’ some Sonic the Hedgehog, when my friend comes down the stairs and says ‘your turn.’ I went upstairs and --”
	“Wait, when you were eleven?”
	“Yeah, it wasn’t no big thing. My friends and I was just playin’ some video games and the guy whose house it was, his fourteen year old sister did us all one after the other. Except for her brother, you know.”
	“Wow”
	“Since I got back from my tours I haven’t had much luck, though. It’s harder to get laid when you live with your mom.”
	“...how was your luck in the Middle East?”
	“Not great. Had a Japanese girl in Hawaii, when I was on R&R. Met her in a club. I still keep in touch with her, you know. Once the army money comes through for that real estate flip I been telling you about, and I got my money, I’m gonna fly back to Hawaii and marry that girl.”
	“Sounds like a plan.”
	Matthew stops listening and starts making appropriate noises as he sweeps the top half of the theater. Justin has somehow moved into talking about his huge and ever-growing pirated movie collection. Probably the Japanese girl got him thinking about anime. Matthew finishes his half before Justin, as usual.
	“You play video games?” Justin asks.
	“I used to play all the time; shooters, mostly.”
	“Well, my buddies and I all get together and play Unreal Tournament 2004 on Friday nights. You innerested?”
	“I dunno, maybe.”
	Matthew starts wheeling the trash can out of the theater. Justin follows. Matthew stows the trash can in a nook and they go to the lobby. The ticket line is longer than Justin has ever seen.
	“The new Pirates of the Caribbean movie is bringin’ um in.” Justin says.
	“Yeah. I doubt it’s any good but people seem to like it. Sequels normally suck.”
	“Yeah, I saw it the day it came out and it wasn’t that great.”
	They approach the ticket taker, Mike, who is in a motorized wheelchair.
	“Can you take the podium while I go get dinner?” Mike asks.
	“Sure,” Matthew says, hesitantly. He and Justin exchange glances.
	Once Mike has rolled away Justin says, “You know he’s always at that pizza place for at least half an hour.”
	“Yeah I know. I’m sick of cleaning theaters, though.” Matthew tears a ticket and points a customer in the right direction. Now all the customers in the lobby are in line for concessions.
	“Check out that girl,” Justin says, nodding towards a woman paying for her drink. “Ooh she’s thick. Pretty face, too.” Justin stares.
	Matthew runs a hand through his shiny black hair and says, “Yeah, I guess so.”
	“She’s comin’ over here, be cool.” Justin steps up to the podium and sucks in his gut, straining his too-tight gray vest. Matthew hangs back, just off to the side.
	“How you doin’ tonight?” Justin asks, voice smooth, teeth glowing against his dark skin.
	“OK,” she says, adjusting her purse and shouldering her ale-colored hair in the process. “I’m waiting for someone. He was supposed to be here twenty minutes ago.”
	“Shame to keep a girl like you waiting,” Justin says. She smiles.
	“I called him a couple times but he didn’t answer.”
	“Shame,” Justin says, shaking his head, lips pursed. “What movie are you seeing?”
	“Pirates of the Caribbean.”
	“Oh I saw that Friday, it’s great.”
	“But I thought you said --” Matthew says.
	“I think it’s better than the first one,” Justin says.
	“Really,” she says, raising her eyebrows.
	Screaming. She turns around and they all look towards the ticket booths, where people start throwing up their hands.
	“GET DOWN,” they hear over the din.
	Most everybody does, including Matthew and the woman. Justin freezes, eyes fixed on the automatic rifle held by a masked man. His eyes glaze over. He ducks behind the podium.
	“Gimme the loot! The money bitch, NOW.”
	“You, come with me.”
	“Get out of my pockets!”
	They hear sounds of a struggle; a shot rings out. People scream, then silence.
	“Anybody else who doesn’t cooperate will end up like that asshole.”
	Matthew looks at Justin. Justin’s shaking, wide-eyed, curled up, his back to the podium.
	“I gotta get out of here,” Justin says.
	“What?”
	Justin gets up and starts running down a hallway towards an exit. Matthew hesitates, glancing back, and then follows Justin, running stooped. He hears a shout behind him and a bullet throws a bit of the wall at the back of his head.
	In the parking garage just outside, Matthew finds Justin sitting in his running car with the radio on, taking deep breaths. Matthew opens the passenger side door.
	“Justin, are you all right?”
	Justin turns the music down.
	“Sit,” he says.
	Matthew gets in and closes the door.
	“Guns and bullets bring back bad memories,” Justin says.
	They sit silent for a bit. They hear sirens in the distance.
	“Do you wanna talk about it?” Matthew asks.
	“I hope that girl’s all right,” Justin says.
	“Yeah,” says Matthew. “Shouldn’t we get out of here?”
	“Nah, the cops will want witness statements.”
	“You don’t think there won’t be plenty of people still in the lobby to give statements?”
	“I guess. I’m worried about that girl, though.”
	“Why are you so hung up on this girl? You don’t even know her.”
	“I dunno, but we’ll probably have to go back to work once this is all sorted out.”
	“What? Are you kidding?”
	Justin stares out the windshield and turns up the music.
	“Whatever,” Matthew says, “I’m going home.”
	Matthew gets out of the car and starts walking back towards the exit.
{flesh out and make less choppy
	The exit door opens and the five armed, masked men come out, dragging hostages with them. Matthew starts. Justin turns his head towards the noise and movement. One of the hostages is his girl. Matthew runs and dives behind a parked car.
	Justin revs the engine of his car and shifts into reverse. The robbers look towards Justin and shout. Justin pulls out to face them. His girl smacks her distracted captor with her purse. The other hostages follow her lead and try to disarm their captors. Justin speeds towards them. A shot echoes.
	Justin approaches fast. The struggle starts to shift to make room for the car. She hugs her captor and falls on him. She rolls away fast and Justin’s tire runs over her captor’s neck. The car hits another captor and the captor’s head hits the windshield.
	Justin stops and the captor rolls off his hood. The sirens are much louder now. He hears the shouts of police. He gets out of his car.
}
	“There’s blood on my new rims,” he says.
	“It was worth it though, wasn’t it?” Justin stares at his car. “I’m Clare, by the way.”
	“Justin,” he says, still looking at his car.
	“Justin. Thanks.”
	“Yeah,” he says, too loud. “I don’t know if insurance will cover this. You wanna go get some pizza?”
	“Yeah, I’d like that.”
	Matthew runs up, out of breath.
	“Holy shit. Uh, hi, I’m Matthew,” he says nervously.
	“Matthew,” Justin says, “no girl is out of your league; don’t let any of ‘em make you think that.”
Story idea sketch:
Set in Cinemark (change name?). Matt and Justin are the main protagonists. [Change details like I’ve worked longer, we’re better friends, I have a girlfriend who works concessions.] Robbery turned kidnapping. Criminals must be incompetent and fuck up. Lots of dialog, funny dialog, just enough exposition so the dialog makes sense. Don’t talk directly about race but hint at it through dialog, “damn girl”, “gimme the muthafuckin money bitch!”, “you bootsy”, etc. Whole thing should seem real through surreal casual style relying on specific, small, details that illuminate the scene. Show with dialog and tell little in exposition. Justin should be the hero. Matthew/girlwithblackishname should help. Justin should be hitting on big white girl when shit goes down. Kidnap girlfriend, take her across the skybridge.
USE semi-omniscient 3rd person, present or past? OR narrator could be an anonymous 1st person?

Characters:
Matthew or black supervisor stoned EMT (name?)
Girl concession worker (name? ethnically ambiguous)
Justin
David the manager
Wheelchair-bound Greeter
Customers
Baddies (description and dialog; Ed Bonanza; don’t describe race)
CALL TIM AND ASK FOR NAMES AND DETAILS AND STORIES

Summarishy:
Description of venue and premises as needed throughout; maybe small story of meeting someone on the stairs coming in to work, dialog near ticket-taking concessions area, etc.
Introduction to main characters through brief descriptive exposition and extended dialog:
--Her hair was the color of beer, body slender. Matthew’s hair was the color of a raven, slicked back. Justin was a smooth bald, tall, stout. GREETER. 
Larry’s hair was in thick, full, well-developed dread locks, or elf locks as he liked to joke but preferred. Dreads was racist, he said. He had introduced them as his locks. OR Introduce characters through the incident with the dreadlocked man losing his gold tooth behind the seat. “I lost my gold tooth crown cap.”
MAKE THIS DIALOG.
Establishment of routine; only need a day’s worth of activity which the characters go through
--Dialog about action movie that just came out: Superman, X3, PotC, Snakes on a Plane, Death Proof
Break in the pattern: the robbery gone awry gone kidnapping
--Starts at the cashier, goes around to backdoor, cops spotted coming up the stairs so run towards the concession stands, grab money in registers, more cops, take hostages/shields, try to get out going over the skybridge to the parking lot...
Justin ran to his car when they showed up, leaving the white woman cowering. He went to the parking lot to his car with new rims. 
Matthew noticed Justin’s new rims were covered in blood.

Go into movie theater after show is over, act out some aspect of the movie like srsly.
Same songs get stuck in yr head

Yo you lookin fo a sack?

Justin’s perspective little going on inside the head, all thinking is out loud, inner focus on outer things, some analogies to army life; just wants to get laid but the robbery gets in the way. At the end they go downstairs for McDonald’s “I just spent all my money on my new rims, wanna go to McDonald’s?” Uniform vest doesn’t fit because they don’t make them in my size. Baddies get girl he’s hitting on and once they get out to the parking garage and Justin busts in with his car she starts kicking ass.

Walk around, using their brooms like walking sticks

Matthew and Justin are cleaning a theater; Justin is telling Matthew about how he lost his virginity
They finish cleaning and go down to the lobby; Justin sees a hot, thick girl waiting in line and starts hitting on her; Matthew starts to object but gets shut down after the first thing he says
Robbers bust in, shooting a rent-a-cop and robbing the cashiers before hitting concessions; some people run, others hit the floor -- Justin runs but the girl hits the floor
Justin reaches his car and worries about the girl; has a brief Iraq flashback
They sit and Justin tells him about war and his girlfriend; they hear a shot
The robbers come out with the thick girl in tow along with a couple other hostages; Justin guns it, distracts the baddies, the hostages kick ass, and Justin runs over the ring-leader
They go to McDonald’s, Matthew gets left hangin

Justin’s war story: 
sit silent for a while, after Matthew asks for a ride home; Justin is worried about that girl. shouldn’t we call 911? Sirens already.
When you work at an ice cream shop and you scoop out the last of a barrel into a cone and the cone isn’t quite up to weight, you look at the customer and ask if the cone is all right. You should have changed the barrel earlier but it was busy, and there’s a line. If the customer is all right with it you try to make the next one fatter but if they want a better cone you have to go in back and grab a new barrel. If it’s really busy you tell them you’re out and if they’re really insistent you go in the back and check to make sure. Even if there is more in the back unless it’s a popular flavor you come back out with a sorry expression and say you’re all out.

When you work at an ice cream shop on a hot summer day you get a steady trickle of customers. Once all the chores are done and you’re just standing around you feel entitled to make yourself a cone or drink or popcorn or whatever. If it’s raining you can make anything you want, even a banana split, and sit there eating it and not be worried about a customer coming in. If the day is nice you might be able to sneak in a cone on break, but normally you just go with a milkshake to drink as you can. If things are really gonna be busy and you’re dragging you might make yourself a coffee drink. If things are gonna get really crazy but you’ve got an empty store and no-one to judge you but your co-worker, you can take a shot of the pure espresso syrup you use to make the coffee drinks. You can’t overdo it though, because while a few will make you more efficient and work faster and more pleasant and confident, too much will make you scatterbrained and over-hurried and maybe you’ll drop something and have to make it all over again.

When I worked at the movie theater on the Plaza in Kansas City I had a co-worker who talked all the time. We were ushers, which meant we helped people find their theaters, stood around at premieres looking important, but mostly cleaned up after customers. We typically had time to kill and worked with one or two other ushers, so there was a lot of time to get to know one another or watch parts of movies. Normally we’d talk about movies or customers or our boss or whatever was in the news, small talk, but one of my co-workers took the opportunity to tell us whatever was on his mind. Justin had me know the first day I worked with him that he grew up in a single family home with his mom in the historically black east KC neighborhood, had done a tour in Afghanistan and another in Iraq, and was gonna be filthy rich one day. He would tell me about his plans to use some military program to buy up real-estate on the cheap and then sell it after a year or so and make tons of money and go from there and start his own company making video games. He loved video games and talked about them as much as he talked about movies. The money we made as ushers wasn’t much, so to support his habit he pirated video games and had hacked all his gaming machines. He’d used most of his Army stipend to buy a powerful gaming computer and had a complicated set-up at home. He also downloaded every new movie that came out in theaters, even if he had no intention of watching it. For archival purposes, he said. I didn’t ask to many questions. It was hard to get a word in. He talked constantly, and every once in a while would slip in something totally unexpected. Once he told me how he lost his virginity. One day he and his friends were playing video games at a house when he was about eleven. There was a girl upstairs and she would call each one up in turns and have sex with them. He started going into more detail but I stopped him with some comment. He’d always give me advice on girls. No one is out of your league, he’d say. And he’d hit on customers all the time, a few of whom were more receptive than others. Before I left to go off to college, he had just gotten new rims on his Acura and wanted to show me them. He wouldn’t stop talking about them so I humored him and followed him into the parking garage at the end of my last shift. When we got there I saw some five spoke shiny silver rims, nothing too flashy or novel in design. When he saw them he freaked, building a long “aw” under his hand. Check out that sickness! I did my best to look and sound impressed, but didn’t know what to say. I wasn’t much into cars, but I used what vocabulary I had. Before he left to get back to work he said again, No one’s out of your league man, don’t let those girls intimidate you. And I stood there for a while and took the same elevator he did after it came back up and walked through the theater to the locker room and cleared out my locker and walked back to the parking garage and drove away.

One time I was working at the Baskin-Robbins at 63rd and Wornall and an older woman with stringy wavy gray hair and a stooped coiled body came in with her twentysomething son. You could tell something was a bit off about her. She had a wild look in her, a stare that said she didn’t trust you and never would. They ordered well enough, the woman ordering first and then asking what must have been her son what he wanted, saying he couldn’t get anything too expensive. I went to make her a milkshake and my co-worker scooped her son’s ice cream. My co-worker went to ring them up but she wasn’t having it. She said something that she didn’t want to pay until she got her shake, like my co-worker was being presumptuous or trying to move them along. She then started complaining loudly and bitterly about how prices had gone up but the cones were smaller. Her son just stood there and shifted around and looked embarrassed. He said something quietly to his mom but she told him off and then started into my co-worker again. Turned out she didn’t have enough cash for the price and took this to be our fault, like we were trying to take advantage of her or somehow victimizing her. My co-woker won’t give her a discount as she’s being extremely rude so he clears the register and walks outside to smoke a cigarette, leaving me finishing up the lady’s milkshake. I bring it up to the counter and ring her up same as before. She’s taken the brief interlude to get out her checkbook and writes a check while muttering under her breath about how stupid people are and how it’s such a rip off and not the same as it used to be and we should have just gone to the grocery store and bought two tubs of ice cream for the same price. I just stare at her, take her check, not wanting to start shit with the batty insane paranoid overbearing witchy mother. She and her son sit down to their ice cream but the tension remains, as she keeps making rude comments about everything in her sight. All the other customers are petrified and one table finishes their ice cream early and jets out. My co-worker comes back in and she ratchets up her verbal abuse again. Eventually he asks her to leave and she spits more venom and he gives up and goes in back. I don’t know what to do, she hasn’t been mean to me and I feel like she might hex me or something if I try to tell her to leave. I wipe and wash and clean and give her my best evil eye to keep her quiet. Eventually they leave and my co-worker comes out and we complain about what an awful person she was and apologize to the remaining customers, a couple teenagers who seem amused by the whole thing. The family with little kids are long gone.
I am from the Kansas City area. My family moved around when I was a kid but we always lived in either Brookside or old Leawood. I went to Catholic schools until college. In high school I was well behaved and got excellent grades. I went to a liberal arts school in Walla Walla, Washington on scholarship my freshman year of college. There I got heavy into drugs and parties and had to leave in April due to drug psychosis. My parents found out what I had been doing so I went to UMKC and lived in my mom’s basement the next semester. I worked for my uncle’s industrial supply company during that time, developing web sites and doing other computer related tasks. I couldn’t stand that life much longer so I came to KU. I am majoring in Humanities in order to accommodate my fickle academic tastes and graduate in a reasonable amount of time. My concentrations are English, Ancient Greek and some other humanity. I was planning on concentrating in Philosophy but I flunked Modern Philosophy last semester. I like writing and would like to write for a living. I like to read science-fiction and classics. I mean classics in both senses. I have also started reading comics seriously for the first time in my life, focusing on specific authors like Warren Ellis, Grant Morrison, Neil Gaiman and Alan Moore. I worked for nine months at the Energy Balance Lab on KU campus as an IT Assistant. Right now I’m living off of bond money and freelance for my aforementioned uncle’s company. I have atypical brain chemistry that I’m not willing to pathologize. I don’t have any sleeping pattern to speak of but sometimes wish that I did. I was named Mr. Vocabulary upon graduating from 8th grade. I will graduate from KU sometime next year. After that, my sane reasonable friends tell me I should stick to working with computers while I and some of my higher friends say that I should try to survive without a steady paycheck and write. I have a history of missing class which I want to correct. I will be 22 on March 14th, which is also Pi Day and Albert Einstein’s birthday. I spend entirely too much time on the internet so my head is full of nonsense most of the time. I watch some TV and movies. My roommate watches TV every night after work and so I see some that way. I am a fan of 30 Rock and Mad Men. The internet was the only medium that my parents did (could) not heavily censor as I grew up so I have been most formed by it. I missed out on a lot of pop culture. I have a beard and long hair. I am reading the Iliad to prepare for translating it this semester. I am also half-heartedly reading Roger Zelazny’s Lord of Light which is a bizarre re-telling of the story of Siddhartha, the Buddha, set in a sci-fi fantasy realm ruled by Hindu gods who are treated as human characters and engage in byzantine political intrigue. 
I had received a call from my friend Mike a week prior. He didn’t know where he was and kept talking about guys in a Lincoln town car trying to beat him up. He was in someone’s yard, he said, trying to avoid obvious places where they might find him, like the street or the sidewalk. I had tried to figure out where he was to pick him up but all I figured was the suburbs, and this city is mostly suburbs. This had all happened before, so the call didn’t come as a total surprise.
Last time Mike was in the hospital, he had called me while I was still living in the dorms. He told me about how he had a demon inside him, but how he knew that he was the reincarnation of St. Paul. He told me too about the girl he had sex with. Sex between patients in the ward isn’t allowed, and while they were in the act an orderly had come and yelled at them. He laughed when he told me. They had been loud.
In the waiting room, a news documentary is on the TV. There’s a lady crying about her lost trailer. Some tornado in rural Kansas. The balance of sensational and concerned makes my nervous stomach tighten.
Religion and growing up
Come into eventual crying and regret and being asked to leave and a dissolving benzo host on the tongue.
Waiting room
Exposition about why I’m there and what it means to me
Hallways, talking awkwardly with others there for visiting hours
Wait at the door, and come in to hugs and patients waiting
Talk to friend, meet other visitor
Go into room, talk
Cigarette break
Come back inside to see someone being injected against their will
Back to his room, with a revelatory convo turn
Witch Cults of the Radio Age

I wake up to the lullaby machiine still running from last night when I fell asleep. Sounds broken, clickety clackety. The magnetic tape must be strained, on the verge of breaking. Not surprising, here at the Colony. Most everything we have is old, decayed and crumbling. When I first joined up, all ra-ra and emotionally involved, I found character and inspiration in this. So different from the everythiing new all the time consumer culture I’d grown up in.
I look out the window. Rainy and gray again. The drops hit the window and make sloppy circles that run together and fall slowly down the pane. I need coffee. And a cigarette. At least those habits haven’t changed much, here. My emotional involvement in my tasks, our mission, has lessened, though. Undeniably.
That nagging thought - how do we get along here? - gets pushed back under the inky covers of my consciousness as I get up out of bed and stumble to the coffee maker. One spoonful of grounds into the filter, one cup of water. Flip the switch.
Now to my computer. Two unread messages, ignoring feeds for now. The first is spam. I laugh it off; the last penis pill I got from one of these fraudulent bastards actually worked and I made some extra cash on the street. The second: a room change, for group therapy. One more flight of stairs to climb. Fuck yeah.

“I see, so, I see, so...”
Another bumble from the receptionist. She never has put together a complete sentence in the last three years I’ve been checking in here. Nice tits, though.
“Yeah, so I just need to make an appointment with Frog to get my drive fixed. Won’t read discs anymore.”
She slurps from her coffee, opening up her blouse. I could stand here all day.
“OK” She writes on her memo pad. “Look.”
She holds the pad out for me to see what she’s written but again distracts me by leaning down a bit farther.
 -- Call Frog about Zeke’s dick drive --
“Uh, that’s disk drive.”
“Oh, right” she giggles, drawing a swash under the c to make it an s.
“Thanks, babe.”
“Oh, Zeke, anytime.”

“I’m just saying, the sea is like the womb of the world. Like, all life came from it, you know, and it’s all mysterious and wet and --”
“Yes, quite a good point, Charles.”
Charles has a huge beard that he swings around like an epileptic when he talks.
Mr. Attenbox is a counselor here at the Colony. He’s currently leading group discussion like he does everything Monday and Wednesday. Here we discuss our progress on the Colony’s Mission.
“So, this month’s party may be held at the local pool, then, is that what you’re suggesting?” asks Alice.
“No, we’re talking like a full scale every bit of fucking coast drug party,” says Terry.
“Obviously there will be drugs,” Attenbox says.
“But Attey, you always say that and it’s just marijuana when we get there. All the booze you can drink and a couple pipes, maybe a blunt. I’m talking about hard drugs here, Attey,” Alice says. She’s concerned.
“Right, I agree,” I say, “but the issue is supply. Or really, competition for supply.”
“Last time we went to the Market for coke and dope they were out,” Terry saiys.
“So, what we have people go in shifts?”
“And make people pitch in before hand?”
“I think we’ll have to take the hit, here, no pun intended, and just pay up front, and hope we set precedent for the other Colonys”
“No, fuck that, I’m out. Remember what happened last time?”
“Yeah, you didn’t match us and we came up short on coke and lost half the party to those raiding Mediates.”
“Fuck them.”
Mr Attenbox cleared his throat. I lit a cigarette.
“Well,” he said. “Perhaps we could combine this month’s manifestation of the Mission with our ire towards our colleagues at Medium.”
“Yeah...” Alice says, “We should just go raid the Medium house for alcohol and use the extra to pay for powder and pills.”
“Bricks. Let’s go for bricks.”
Attenbox raised his head and looked straight through his glasses around the room.
“All in favor?”
All in favor.

“How royally fucked are we?” asked Therese.
“LIke, Queen of England like fucked.” Terry said.
We’d made our way in the three tanks that our Colony had to the Medium compound. After blasting holes in the weak sections of the wall we rumbled through the hallways towards where our informant said the booze waas stashed. Something didnt smell right, though. We hit the atrium, and found bodies, dead and being eaten at by crows and dogs. On the other side the storeroom where their legendary booze stash once was lay empty.
“Who the fuck hit them like this?”
“The Saints, maybe? Those alcoholic Catholic basterds never seem to apply that one commandment when it comes to the blood of Christ.”
“Could be, but --”
A few floors up someone opened fire with an automatic rifle. We turned a tank around and fired up in the general direction, showering glass and concrete and reinforcement bars and dust.
“Let’s get the fuck out of here and leave these sorry mfuckers”


Back in therapy on Wednesday, we were all pizzed. Mr. Attenbox was nonplussed and supported as usual.
“Well, group, we have some options. Another raid, perhaps, or scaling back our plans. Or, if we have extra cash to fun our plans, we could go that route.”
“I got a shipment of penis pills in the other night and found some sucker down in the Market to pay list price.” Charles said.
“Fuck yeah! No pun intended,” Terry said.
“So, I’m assuming because you used my connect and borrowed money from Alice and Therese we can put that money to the Mission?” I asked.
“Yeah, as long as Terry throws in for booze and weed and cigarettes. If I’m getting the good stuff I want everything else covered.”
“You’ll make the deal then?”
“Yeah, I have to go by the Market on my way home anyhow.”

Moon shadow. There’s a crow looking through my window. I make sure to turn off the lullaby machine once I feel myself drifting. I just hope it won’t break next time I turn it on.
I hope to enroll in English 205 for the Fall 2008 semester.  I anticipate working hard on challenging assignments and turning in papers that reflect a nuanced understanding of the material.  At the time of this writing, both open Honors sections will read A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man by James Joyce.  I read this novel for fun about two years ago and found it difficult yet fascinating.  Stephen Dedalus’ internal struggles resonated with my own experience of questioning and rebellion at a Jesuit high school.  I look forward to engaging with this and other texts, as well as with other interested students, through lectures and class discussions led by an accomplished professor.

While an Honors English class will challenge me, I believe I am well prepared.  I graduated high school with superb grades in Honors and AP classes, the distinction of National Merit Finalist, and a scholarship to Whitman College.  When I got to Whitman, however, my fascination with psychedelic drugs turned self-destructive and I was unable to finish my second semester.  It took me a year to fully recover, but the ordeal left me with a renewed appreciation for the writing process.  Journaling was the most therapeutic outlet for those difficult experiences and emotions.  I have continued to write at a steady clip and would like to grow even more as a writer. 

I planned to major in Computer Science when I first entered college.  Now I am reconsidering how my interests will translate into a major.  I am currently considering English, with an emphasis on Creative Writing, as well as Physics and Math.  Though a focus on Physics would hasten my graduation, a Creative Writing emphasis suits my fiction addiction and desire to tell stories.  I hope to explore both these options this fall and come to a final decision by the end of the semester.
A Woman’s Lot
MEDEA: [. . .] Of all who have breath and thought, we women are the most wretched creature. First we must buy a husband at an exorbitant price and take him as master of our body. [For this second evil is even more painful than than the first.] In this act the stakes of the contest are of extreme importance: whether we take a good husband or a bad one. For divorce is not glorious for women and it is not possible to refuse a husband. And coming into new customs and laws it is necessary to be a prophet, having not learned at home how she should deal with her husband. If we complete our labors well and our husband lives with us, carrying his yoke without compulsion, our life is worthy of imitation. If not, it is better to die. But a man, whenever he is annoyed with the people in his house, going outside abates his heart of vexation, turning to some friend or equal in age. But it is necessary for us to live a life involving no danger within the house, and for them to fight with spears, living dangerously. I would rather thrice stand in the line of battle than once give birth. But your story and mine are not the same: you have a city and a father’s house, a prosperous life and the society of friends, while I, without a city, deserted, suffer insolence from my husband, having been carried off as booty from a foreign land, having no mother, brother, or kinsmen with whom to seek refuge from misfortune.
Discussion --
	Medea’s speech starts fifteen lines before this selection. Having just come out of her house, in which she was wailing loudly, she attempts to defend her anti-social behavior and distressed state-of-mind.
	She starts by explaining the plight of women. She addresses her speech to the Corinthian women of the chorus. She recognizes and shows through her speech that women are intelligent but oppressed. She focuses on the subjugating institution of marriage. While men are given freedom to have lives outside the home, women have no choice but to labor within the home. She shows the strength of her conviction in exclaiming preference for war over giving birth. Then she moves from the general to her specifics, falling back into the distressed state-of-mind heard in her wails from within the house.
By the beginning of the Edo period, one can see the emergence of different painting schools and groups of patrons. Choose two painting schools and discuss their artistic features in relation to either their patron or cultural milieu.
From the beginning of the Momoyama period to the end of the Edo period, Japanese people became exposed to various foreign cultures and arts.  Discuss particular forms of art produced by Japanese artists in correspond to these various foreign cultures. How foreign religion or science contributed to shaping particular forms of art during these periods? 

Exhibit Review
	Resounding Spirit: Japanese Contemporary Art of the 1960s in the Kress Gallery at the Spencer Museum of Art is an engaging display of colorful abstraction.  The art is a reflection of the cultural restructuring that happened after the children born into post-war Japan reached their twenties.  Paintings from this period started out gestural and calligraphic, but by the seventies more geometric, avant garde design-influenced works had emerged.  In the nineties Neo-Dada became prominent, emphasizing anarchic performance art.
	Artistic presentations played an integral role in Japanese contemporary art from its inception, however.  The art of the fifties and early sixties tends to convey a sense of barely controlled chaos.  Artists typically completed works in short flurries of activity, leading to dynamic pieces.  Indeed, gutai art is described by one of its major promoters as “impart[ing] life to the material.”  Paint and canvas collide to evoke nature, as Imai Toshimitsu's L'Onde from 1962.  The diagonal sprays of red, white and orange over a white canvas makes the piece look as though it was made by the wind.  A white void in the lower left-hand corner and a smaller triangle of grey in the background of the upper right increase the sense of a volatile sky.
	Imai's French connection indicates the effect of the increasingly globalized postmodern world on Japanese art.  As prominent Japanese artists increasingly worked overseas they brought the Japanese cultural perspective to the art world at large.  Kawashima Takeshi's New York W2 from 1971 shows this intersection of local and global.  An example of geometric expressionism, Kawashima drew from the aesthetic tradition of Japanese family crests to create a work that blends abstract, organic and modular elements.  The forms are vaguely sexual, subtly, slowly revealing images of genitalia and the simplified human form.  The limited color palate and division of the painting into nine squares also speaks to the monochromatic, compartmentalized nature of urban spaces.
	Another work influenced by Western ideas but uniquely Japanese is optical art.  In the words of William C. Steitz, the aim of this style is to “muffle and distort the purely perceptual effects of lines, areas, and colors.”  Todasky, another New Yorker expatriate, painted one of the most arresting examples of op art.  His target-like B 184 is made up of concentric black circles filled with alternating basic colors.  It creates the “illusionistic effect of movement, flashing and vibration,” a central characteristic of op art according to the wall placard to its right.  Psychedelia clearly influenced this work, as its 1964 creation date and colorful vibrance suggest.  It plays on the margins of perception, causing the viewer to contemplate their visual mechanics.  
This shift towards more orderly art has not persisted to the present day, however.  Performance art and absurdism have made their way back into popular expression in Japan.  2004’s Boxing Painting by Shinohara Ushio demonstrates this reversion.  A Neo-Dada piece, it takes the gestural quality of early Japanese modern art and blends the disdain for traditional aesthetics into a fun piece of performance art.  The video accompanying the expansive, light purple, acrylic on canvas painting is a record of its creation.  Shinohara struts out on stage like a prize-fighter and puts on boxing gloves to cheers from the crowd.  He then submerges one glove in a can of white paint, the other in green.  An playful attack on the canvas follows.  The artist bounces around as though shadow-boxing, periodically reapplying paint to his gloves.  The final product is a collage of smears and splashes – a record the impacts of Shinohara’s fists; a surrealist bubble-scape.
This delightful contemporary art exhibit captures the trends and highlights of postmodern Japanese painting.  These pieces show a creative blending of disparate influences, from ancient calligraphy to avant garde innovations.  Overall, this gallery occupant is quite enjoyable and is a credit to the Spencer Museum of Art and the University of Kansas.
	
Idleness, Aesthetics and a Pillow
	Aesthetics has played an important role in development of Japanese culture and society.  Ideas about what is beautiful and ugly, uplifting and depressing have been a central focus of Japanese art.  These ideas are closely tied to religious values and as religious views changed and new groups gained popularity, Japanese aesthetics evolved.  Chinese influenced imperialism and insular elite gave way to equally removed Buddhist monks with wide influence over many powerful figures.  This progression can be seen examining primary source materials of Essays in Idleness by Yoshida Kenko and Pillow Book by Sei Shonagon.  Visual examples that also demonstrate these changes in Japanese society are Crane, Kannon, and Monkey by Mu Qi, Four Sleepers by Mokuan Reien, a cosmetic box from the late Heian period, and illustrations from Genji monogatari.
Yoshida Kenko is a defining example of wabi sabi whereas Sei Shonagon’s view of the world was more tied with mono no aware.  Transience is central to both ideas of beauty.  Sei’s perception of beauty is more feminine, refined, courtly, stately; it is based on human constructions and the restrained, orderly beauty of nature.  Kenko finds falling cherry blossoms beautiful, but also the unopened buds and the blossoms scattered across the ground or a body of water.  Sei thinks opened willow blossoms are ugly compared to the buds before they open.
Her ideas about beauty, ugliness and sadness are rooted in a society in which an imperial regime had recently established itself for the first time and many associated with them, including Sei, treat them as though they are divine.  The things that make her sad and depressed, on the other hand, seem to be typical human failings: social awkwardness, rejection in its various forms, the fall or defeat of a powerful member of society, any reminder of human mortality and out-of-place things.
By the Kamakura period, however, the socio-political situation had changed significantly.  The social order was in the process of crumbling and rival samurai clans battled for power on the island.  No single clan commanded the respect and admiration of the general public.  Kenko grew up and served the imperial family for a time before leaving public service to become a hermit.  He became a famous Zen master unassociated with any specific monastery, was a major proponent of the wabi aesthetic.  Characterized by austerity, solitude, simplicity, wabi is about finding beauty in old, weathered objects.  Sabi is a related concept that is even more closely tied to Zen; the Buddhist virtues of tranquility and detachment are central to the definition of sabi. (Mason).  Mono no aware, on the other hand, evokes sensitivity to transience, and is more melancholy than serenely detached.  
Mono no aware is defined as “the pathos of things or the moving quality of experience” (Mason).  Both these concepts are heavily influenced by Buddhism; wabi sabi by Zen and mono no aware by Shingon and Tendai.  Shingon and Tendai emphasized the Buddha and various bodhisattvas, allowing people to be more emotionally involved in the world as they could feel they had a personal relationship with these figures.  Zen, on the other hand, emphasized the individual’s spiritual journey, with the help of others who attempt to be as jarring as possible.  Koans and other Zen literature are an example of this benign competitiveness.  These trends led to increased minimalism in Japanese aesthetics.
Nature and natural processes are important for both concepts; wabi sabi takes a detached comfort in transience whereas mono no aware is more melancholy and emotionally involved in the physical processes of the world.  Both observe similar things and ascribe beauty to them but for different reasons.
For Kenko’s wabi sabi aesthetic, works such as Crane, Kannon, and Monkey were highly influential.  Mu Qi, the painter behind this triptych, was a Chinese Cha’an monk and his work had a profound influence on Japanese Zen.  Reading the piece from right to left, he outlines the path to enlightenment.  Starting as an ape attached to worldly concerns, represented by the monkey on a tree branch holding onto a baby, a person then encounters the bodhisattva Kannon and is led into an enlightened state, symbolized as a serene, walking crane.  This pictorial language influenced Japanese painters profoundly.  
A work completed around the same time as Kenko’s Essays in Idleness, Mokuan Reien painted Four Sleepers.  This painting was accompanied by commentary written by the artist, meant for other Zen monks.  The koan-like quality of this commentary along with a style influenced by Southern Song painting makes this work a reflection of the same environment that inspired Kenko’s reflections on nature, personal relationships and life processes in general.
Mono no aware is best exemplified by the few artifacts remaining from the period.  A cosmetic box, intricately decorated and made from wood, demonstrates the importance the imperial culture placed on personal appearance and conforming to a certain aesthetic of personal presentation.  Sei Shonagon may have had a similar item.  More than anything, this item is an indication of the wealth of these ascendant conquerors.
The illustrations from Genji monogatari capture much more explicitly the gestalt of mono no aware.  These paintings were made by a large group of specialized artists, starting with the dark outlines and then moving down the line to those responsible for specific colors.  Though only working with black ink, the head of the project had considerable power in framing the scene to give a sense of the emotions involved.  The roofs are removed from most pictures, giving a sense of detachment from the scene and the characters, showing them trapped by the trappings of wealth.  A strong diagonal dominates the image in most surviving illustrations, giving a dynamic feel to an otherwise static composition.  Colors also tend to be washed out, with little contrast or brightness to the composition (Mason).
Both Sei Shonagon and Yoshida Kenko often mention things that are "beautiful," "ugly" and "sad." The concept of beauty seems to be tightly related to both their courtly and reclusive life, and their own periods of time.  The visual arts of the Heian and Kamakura periods were heavily influence by the same religious and political factors and so reflect the same central concepts of mono no aware and wabi sabi.

President: Jimmy Koppen
Vice-President: Larry Pfeffer
Moderator:  Mr. Tran
Purpose:  To bring together the many students of Rockhurst High School who have an       interest in computers.  This includes hardware, software, programming, games and the internet.  The majority of these students are isolated in smaller groups of friends.  Hopefully, the Computer Club will give all of them a common ground through which they can get to know each other and collaborate on computer-related projects.
Events and Projects:  We plan on having many fun events throughout the year, such as LAN parties, as well as building a computer or computers, possibly for the auction.  Other current ideas include modding (modifying) an Xbox or possibly tinkering with the XGameStation, a new, DIY game console coming out in December that aims to help people learn basic computer and software engineering, as well as give experienced tweakers a fun platform to mess around with.  Also, we could start an open-source software project, or a game mod, based on ideas from club members.  These are just a few ideas that are out there right now, but I expect with new members from this first meeting that we will get many more great ideas.  So if you have an idea or suggestion, even if it’s something completely undeveloped, bring it up!
Meetings: Meetings will be held once a month.  This club will strive to be an open forum, where everyone’s ideas, comments, and suggestions are given equal consideration and respect.   If you have a good idea for an event or project, you will generally be encouraged to become the “project/event leader.”  Brent Sear has already mentioned running a LAN Party, for instance.  We don’t want people to have to jump through a lot of hoops just to put a good idea into action, so you can start a project or hold an event without having to deal with much or any bureaucracy.  If your event would take place during a meeting at school, however, then you will definitely need to talk to Jimmy, Larry or Mr. Tran, preferably all of us, so we can plan accordingly.  Posting in the forums is an excellent way to do this.  Each meeting will typically start out with an invitation to anyone to bring up a topic they would like to discuss or an idea they have.  Once these discussions have been completed, the meeting will progress to a topic prepared by the leaders of the club (if there is enough time, and if there isn’t well, that’s what forums are for).  This could be anything from planning and/or deciding/voting on events, introducing project ideas of our own and then getting feedback from members, or bringing up a topic we think is interesting for discussion or debate.
Outside of School:  Because this club will focus on computers, the internet is a natural medium for interaction outside of meetings.  Currently, our homepage is.  This website includes forums (aka Bulletin Boards or Message Boards) where members can post on various topics, like the ones talked about in meetings.  We encourage you to use these forums, as all members can view and post on them and they are an excellent way to present ideas for projects or events, as well as get to know the other members of the club.  In addition, we have “@rhscomputerclub.org” email accounts and subdomains (whatever.rhscomputerclub.org) available, so if you are interested talk to Jimmy Koppen, the webmaster.  Many events will also take place out of school, and if you have an idea for such an event, post it in the forums or bring it up during a meeting.
The corridor was long and tall, with sky-lights filtering natural light down onto the travelers below.  The marble floor and the central fountain reflected this light, scattering it in all directions.  Dozens of small shops and kiosks lined the corridor.  A swarthy man with a dark mustache and a little hat sold gourmet pretzels next to a music store were kids in baggy jeans and beanies bobbed their heads to the latest hit while browsing heavy metal records.  The corridor was clean, almost too clean, like a hospital, except it felt alive as opposed to dead.  People on all sides chatted and hurried in all directions.  A man in a suit talking on his cell phone brushed past a woman with a video camera who was chatting amiably with her friend.  Two women in shawls pushed baby strollers past a group of giggling teenage girls, dressed in hip hugging jeans and belly shirts.
I found my airline and took my place in line at the ticket desk.  At the front of the line a mother frantically tried to control her screaming baby container while her young children ran around the velvet ropes, playing an animated game of tag.  Behind them, a woman in a suit coat and conservative skirt glanced at her watch irritably and sighed audibly.  The young woman at the counter looked a bit harried, and breathed a sigh of relief when the woman with the children was sent on her way.  Moving closer to the counter, there was a pervasive smell of a popular fragrance emanating from the ticket women.  She looked to be about 25 and was quite grateful to deal with customers not attached to small screaming humans, and had a pleasant but stressed voice, like a spring day right after a tornado.  I was soon on my way.
Making my way further down the smaller corridor a security check loomed ahead.  The airport employees checked bags while the guards stood off to the side, some with jet black rifles and boots that looked like they belonged in a jungle.  The airport screeners were searching an oversized teenager whose mature body and baby face made him look slightly ape-like.  
Competition:
Although it is generally considered constructive, competition evokes some of the most detrimental human emotions.  While today’s society revels in rivalries and conflict, these relationships unconsciously breed a mindset that causes people to need someone to hate.  In A Separate Peace, John Knowles uses the relationships between the boys at Devon to show how the human tendency to label peers as rivals is destructive.
Macro/Micro:
	Many parts of the world seem to be in a constant state of warfare or unrest.  The Israelis and Palestinians sign peace accords, but in a few weeks are back to killing each other; in Northern Ireland, peace is tentative, and militant groups plot behind the scenes, thinking only of past injustices and protecting what they believe is rightfully theirs.  Reports of violence in places like Africa, South-Eastern Asia and Columbia are common-place; it seems the people will never stop fighting.  In A Separate Peace, John Knowles parallels the war of that era, World War II, to the events at Devon to show that as long as humans exist, there will be conflict.
Coping Mechanism:
“Reality is that which, when you stop believing it, doesn’t go away.”
-Philip K. Dick
  War, through its sheer inhumanity, can seriously affect how a person views the world.  Knowles uses the Devon students’ ways of coping with the war to illustrate war’s affect on people’s sense of reality. 
Video Games Own You
On its first day in stores, the video game “Halo 2” grossed $125 million, beating even the largest earning movie, Spiderman 2, which earned $114 million over its first three days in the theaters (Becker).  Another gaming powerhouse, the “Grand Theft Auto” series, sold 11.5 million copies of its last two games (Morris).  According to a study released by the Yankee Group, a leading research and consulting company, $7.4 billion was spent on video games in 2003 (“Video Games”).  Far from just a fad, video gaming has grown into one of the biggest entertainment industries.  Which begs the question: why do so many people like to play video games?
One thing that makes video games attractive is that, like books and movies, they immerse the player in an interesting story.  Unlike other forms of media, however, games allow the player to be directly involved in the story.  For example, in Halo 2, the player takes on the role of Master Chief, a super human warrior who must defend earth from an alien invasion.  Master Chief is equipped with futuristic weapons and vehicles and must complete missions that are critical to stopping the alien invasion.  While all of this is very similar to a science-fiction movie, the critical difference is that each player has the unique experience of advancing the storyline himself.  Because there are many ways to accomplish certain missions, players have to use their mental capacities to figure out a strategy for solving the problem and execute that strategy.  This interactivity is what gives players the important sense of accomplishment after completing the game.
Video games also require a certain skill level and try to consistently challenge the player to keep him coming back for more.  Humans enjoy challenges, as overcoming them brings a sense of accomplishment.  In Grand Theft Auto, the in-game police forces give the pillaging player a challenge: how long can I run around causing mayhem before the police kill or arrest me?  The better the player is at out-running and out-gunning the police, the longer he can survive.  Halo 2 offers a different kind of challenge, in that as the game progresses, enemies become more difficult to defeat and their numbers increase, so the player has to consistently improve his skills in order to advance through the story line.
The improvement of skills is taken to next level in multiplayer games, which allow for direct competition between players, either in person or over the Internet.  Playing against real people is normally more challenging than playing against artificially intelligent enemies.  This heightened challenge gives the player a sense of being better than someone else, which is gratifying and caters to humans’ competitive urges in the same way that all other games do.  Violent video games make this competition even more basic, as they the competition a fight for survival.
In addition, video games give players the ability to do things that they would never do in real life.  For example, in Grand Theft Auto, players have the freedom to explore a virtual city in between segments of the story.  Players commonly take advantage of this freedom by going around the city wrecking cars, killing random passers-by in a variety of gruesome ways and generally causing mayhem.  Because doing these things would be unthinkable in real-life, players like to try them out in a virtual world.  Also, the chances of someone having to single-handedly defeat an alien invasion are very slim, but the attraction to that romantic idea makes Halo 2 interesting.  The attraction of far-fetched scenarios and the opportunity to do something forbidden without real world consequences such as death or arrest gives the player memorable experiences to keep him coming back for more.
	However, the root cause of the popularity of video games is that humans like the pressure of having to perform.  Most popular video games convey a feeling of being in danger.  They put the player in a “kill or be killed” situation where he must use his aforementioned skills to survive.  Halo 2 exploits this situation well, pitting the player against aliens bent on eradicating the human race.  Tapping into the basic human survival instinct makes such experiences highly emotional and enthralling.  These intense experiences keep players coming back for more.  More importantly, the compulsion to share these intense experiences with others inevitably attracts more people to video games, thus making them popular.
	 Rogue Scientists Attempt Reproductive Cloning
KANSAS CITY – Political, religious and scientific communities are in an uproar over the bio-tech company GenLife’s announcement that they have begun the process of producing a human clone for reproductive purposes.  The company claims to have begun the process yesterday.  Continued . . .
	“Godless, arrogant heathen!” Charles spat, violently crumpling up the paper and throwing it on the floor.
	“I don’t understand how you can still get so irate about it,” Melissa replied coolly, “You’ve known what they were doing for at least a month.”
 	They were sitting in a dark basement on the east side of Kansas City.  Bare bulbs hung from the ceiling, lighting their large, sparsely furnished concrete hideout.  Charles sat in a well-worn recliner, off to the side of the television, near the wall.  He was a powerful-looking middle-aged white man, with fierce hazel eyes and a graying crew cut.  The TV sat on an old fold-out table facing Melissa, who lounged in a small metal chair, twirling her black hair apathetically.  Her lithe body and round face gave her a decidedly cat-like appearance.
	“I’ll be irate until those bastards are put in their place,” Charles shot back.
	“You won’t have to wait long,” said Melissa, “and you’ll have the personal pleasure doing it yourself.”
	She stood up and walked silently to the opposite side of the basement, where a fluorescent light illuminated a row lockers and a large workbench.  She opened a locker and hoisted a compact sub-machine gun from its depths.
	“Lets get to work.”

GenLife HQ, outside Kansas City, Missouri
	
[Who am I?  Well that question frustrates the brain, because there you have the brain functioning in order to divine the way it functions.  Itís like someone trying to figure out how his digestive system works by cutting himself open and glancing at his insides.  You either stop before you do the deed and try to find some round about way that isnít quite totally real and complete or you kill yourself.]
-It smells bittersweet and earthy, a mixture of a strange flower-like odor and dirty water
-Its surface area predominantly consists of water, varying islands spread around planet
-Water is comparatively shallow throughout; planet is quite swampy, close to sun- hot
-Plants- bodies and leaves red to pink, leaves a royal blue to bluish green, no clear areas
-Large, reddish barked trees with very thick trunks/branches, lush, intertwining, one plant
-Wildlife- dinosaur-like creatures/reptiles (go in depth), amphibian-like creatures also
-Fish-like creatures, biggest seen is shark-sized, similar to earth fish except coloration
-Reptile-like sentient beings, dinosaur/human, seem intelligent, sit on tails under trees
-Have their own language, adapted to both water and land, reddish skin
-Use tools, have settlements in trees made ingeniously
2nd Setting: Chicago
Why: To inform potential tourists, probably from the country
Sensory Perceptions:
-There are lots and lots of people, all pretty diverse (describe some ‘outrageous’ people)
-It smells of exhaust, greasy food and a hint of body odor, with some concrete mixed in
-The pace is fast and invigorating, with many cars and transportation and people
-The din would probably deafen you, cars, people, and construction
-Buildings are huge
-Michigan Ave. has more stores than you can imagine
-The (Lincoln?) park is nice, people gather in the park for various reasons
-The Lakefront and Navy Pier are more tourist attractions
-The museums are top-notch, as is the aquarium
-Various restaurants offer good food, the highlight being Chicago-style pizza
The Storm
	Standing outside, the sun shines and warms my face.  The grass all around me is a lush green and sways in the warm breeze.  Trees stand tall and strong, their bold leaves floating gaily in the wind.  In their branches birds chirp and dance with each other, hopping from branch to branch in an elaborate game.  Flowers stand in clusters, their buds just beginning to open.  Their sweet odor mixes with the earthy smell of the grass and the trees and the soil.
	On the horizon a dark gray cloud appears.  A chilly wind blows away the warm breeze of before, tugging at the stems of the leaves and flattening the grass.  The sky grows darker and turns a grayish orange as a mass of oil-stained cotton balls obscures the sun.  The birds cease their chirping and then start up again, sounding alarmed.  They chirp at each other a bit longer and then fly off in separate directions.  The flowers seem to shrink in the dimming light.  The smell of stagnant water mixes with the smell of the earth and the flowers, alerting the nose of an impending storm.
	It begins to rain.  Small droplets fall randomly, disturbing blades of grass and the now meek leaves of the trees.  A raindrop strikes a flower, causing it to bend, only to be righted by its stem.  Drops fall on a spot of bare soil, making small wet craters in the dirt.  A droplet lands on me, a cool bead of moisture saturating my skin as it rolls down my body towards the ground.  Looking up, the sky is a mass of gray.
	The rain picks up, hitting me steadily.  It pelts my face and body, forming rivulets that coalesce and run down my body in one seemingly ceaseless flow.  I become thoroughly wet, my hair matted and dripping, my appendages guiding a stream of water towards the ground.  A gust of wind hits my skin and chills my bones, exploiting my sogginess.  Again turning my gaze towards the sky, its gray offers no comfort, and the raindrops pound and sting my face.
	The downpour slackens slightly.  Rain falls in a steady staccato of water meeting the earth.  The flowers are jounced by each impact, and the leaves of the trees are beaten down by the rainfall.  The wind is gone, and clamminess gives way to a refreshed, rejuvenated feeling, energizing and empowering.  Drops fall from the raised corners of my mouth.
	The deep boom of thunder reverberates through the landscape.  Falling heavier now, the rain pummels the flowers and leaves, batting them in all directions in rapid succession.  My energy is dampened by the cloudburst, and a chill returns to my bones.  Lightning strikes in the distance.  The downpour worsens as the bolts come steadily closer, their respective sound waves abusing my eardrums and shaking my weary bones.  Strong winds whip through, chilling me further, snapping branches and flattening flowers.  A massive lightning bolt strikes a tree near me, its corresponding thunderclap hitting me instantaneously, nearly knocking me off my feet.  The tree groans and half the trunk begins to break free from the other, flames dancing like little demons across its conquered body.  The sound of snapping and crackling wood directly precedes the descent of the chunk of tree.  It lands near me with a resounding thud, scattering tiny branches in every direction, showering me with debris.  A flower is crushed under the weight of the wood.
	Again the rain grows lighter.  It continues to batter the crippled tree, but the leaves dance to a slower beat.  The tree seems to drip nearly as much as the clouds do, the demons extinguished.  The flowers glisten with a healthy wetness, their stems no longer under constant barrage.  I am buffeted still by occasional winds and a lessening downpour, but I can see in the distance a bright sliver of blue.
	It has stopped raining.  Sunlight begins to melt away the gray, shining down upon the world, warming the cold.  The trees still drip, watering the ground below them, and their leaves now rest after a long waltz.  The flowers that were once buds are now blossoms, their droplet-covered petals glistening confidently in the sunshine.  The wet earth smells strong and refreshed, mingling with the passionate smell of fresh blossoms.  Birds have returned to the trees, and they hop and chirp much as they did before, but for the higher purpose of four screaming mouths.  On the broken tree, where demons once danced, a small sprout peeks out into the world, rooted firmly in the log that was once part of a tree.
Got Tradition?
	In The Lottery, by Shirley Jackson, a community stones one of its members to death in a brutal and old tradition that no one except the victim questions.  This vicious, destructive and archaic tradition lives on in this community because its members have justified the tradition.  There are four mindsets that these people justify their actions through: the brainwashed, closed-minded, elitist, and conformist mindsets.  For archaic and brutal tradition to survive, each one of these mindsets must be present within the community.
		One of the mindsets that allow archaic tradition to survive is the brainwashed mindset.  Brainwashed people are generally younger and have been indoctrinated into their current way of thinking.  An exemplification of this mindset would be a child who takes part in archaic tradition because it is expected of them and because they know nothing else.  Oftentimes they don’t have the mental capacity to examine what they are doing, and because they know nothing different, have no reason to examine it.  A brainwashed person doesn’t know better, but has the capability to identify archaic tradition for what it is through intellectual growth.  The Lottery shows this brainwashed mindset in the children of the town. “School was recently over for the summer, and the feeling of liberty sat uneasily on most of [the children]; they tended to gather together quietly for a while before they broke into boisterous play. And their talk was still of the classroom and the teacher, of books and reprimands.”  This quote touches on how children are shaped by their environment, but also how they are able to change after a while in a new environment or way of approaching life.  Another quote shows the direct indoctrination of the children in a very brutal way.  “The children had stones already. And someone gave little Davy Hutchinson few pebbles.”  Davy Hutchinson’s mother, Tessie Hutchinson, was the person the community was stoning to death.  This young child is basically being equipped and encouraged to help kill his own mother.  Through this experience, he will be further desensitized to this brutal tradition, thanks to this indoctrination by the older members of his society.  This could lead to a mindset of being unable to change his way of thinking, where he is actually afraid of that change.
	Closed-mindedness is an evolved form of the brainwashed mindset.  People in this category are afraid of change, and have taken the mental step of ruling out alternative ways of doing things and therefore are almost impossible to reform.  This mindset generally applies to older people who were brainwashed as kids, but as they became older and more experienced, the constant of the tradition became so firmly implanted in their minds that they cannot think of anything else, and adamantly condemn any proposal or thought of changing the tradition.  In The Lottery, Old Man Warner personifies this mindset.  “"Pack of crazy fools, listening to the young folks, nothing’s good enough for them. Next thing you know, they’ll be wanting to go back to living in caves, nobody work any more, live that way for a while. Used to be a saying about ‘Lottery in June, corn be heavy soon.’  First thing you know, we’d all be eating stewed chickweed and acorns. There’s always been a lottery.”  When presented with the fact that “Some places have already quit lotteries," Old Man Warner responds with “Nothing but trouble in that.  Pack of young fools.”  This quote also brings up that some older people think of the traditions as a step forward, and recognize anything contrary to it a step backward.  Also, with the constant of the tradition comes an association of it with the fortune of the community.
	The majority of the community is made up of conformists, whose closeted thought allows brutal tradition to live on without opposition.  The main driving force behind their thoughts is fear, mainly of the affect of their own thoughts on their standing in society.  They typically have low self-esteem and are indecisive, not giving merit to their own thoughts and just going with the established system.  They reconcile what they are doing through others who do the same thing, such as the closed-minded people.  Stemming from that rationalization is a fear of others, of speaking out, of being anything but normal.  The word choice and attitude of the characters in The Lottery shows this fear.  When the adults gather, they talk silently among themselves, and “[smile] rather than [laugh]” at the quiet jokes of others.  There is awkwardness, and a feeling of always needing reassurance from others, that establishes an uncomfortable aura around the commoners. “’Watson.’ The tall boy came awkwardly through the crowd. Someone said, ‘Don’t be nervous, Jack,’ and Mr. Summers said, ‘Take your time, son.’”  "’Be a good sport, Tessie.’ Mrs. Delacroix called, and Mrs. Graves said, ‘All of us took the same chance.’"  In both of these quotes there is an undercurrent of people almost reassuring themselves of the legitimacy of what they are doing.  They are not really sure if they did take the same chance, because the lottery seems to be fixed, weeding out a weak link, Tessie Hutchinson, the only one who spoke out against the tradition, although the theory doesn’t work out logistically.  So they try to convince themselves, and their fear perpetuates itself, motivating others to accept the tradition.
	The elitists, those who have a high opinion of themselves and run and manipulate the system are those who have the strongest role in keeping the traditions alive.  One justification is the notion of traditions controlling factor.  By keeping the tradition, leaders of the community establish a constant that keeps order in the community and weeds out the weak-links.  This is something that is an undertone in almost any tradition centered community, as exemplified by The Lottery.  “The lottery was conducted . . . by Mr. Summers, who had time and energy to devote to civic activities. He was a round-faced, jovial man and he ran the coal business . . . When he arrived in the square, carrying the black wooden box, there was a murmur of conversation among the villagers, and he waved and called. ‘Little late today, folks.’ . . . The villagers kept their distance, leaving a space between themselves and the stool. And when Mr. Summers said, "Some of you fellows want to give me a hand?" there was a hesitation before two men . . . came forward to hold the box steady on the stool while Mr. Summers stirred up the papers inside it.”  This quote shows how many of the villagers are quite afraid of the people who run the lottery, who also happen to be the leaders of the community who benefit most from the townspeople’s hard work.  The fear and respect for the leaders that stems from the lottery keep the people loyal to the leaders, who gain from their loyalty.  Thus, the lottery is ultimately a tool of the elitists.
	Without the elitists running the system, it would probably fall apart.  Without the conformists, the traditions would be brought to light and melted.  If the closed-minded and brain-washed were not there, the conformists would no longer be able to look to their example of blind acceptance.  And without the society based around the conformists, run by elitists, and manifest in the closed-minded, the younger generations would not be brainwashed.  Without all these groups in place, the system would fall apart, and the brutal and archaic tradition would not survive.
	What were you doing during your high school career?  Were you partying, chasing members of the opposite sex, going out every night and having a blast?  Or were you at home studying or always at school for sports practices or play rehearsals?  High school is a great time to figure out who you are and have fun doing it, but for someone trying to teach kids during this tumultuous time in their life, the task can be daunting.  To actually get these characters learning, teachers have to cater to every type of student, from the smart and dedicated ones to the unmotivated and unintelligent ones.  While each student is a unique and dynamic individual, in order to devise an effective teaching style one must divide and classify students into definable groups, making it easier to select a successful teaching strategy.  Taking into account the types of students, an engaging, energetic, encouraging and moderately challenging teaching style is most effective.
	Students who are highly dedicated and intelligent desire a challenging academic atmosphere.  These students normally come to school in order to learn.  An example of this type of student is Jason Fox, from the cartoon strip Foxtrot.  He is interested in things that will expand his mental horizons and challenge his intellect.  What he cannot stand, however, is stagnation, a class that crawls through the material.  If this happens students like Jason will still do the work and do well, but the class will become “worthless” to them, merely something they pay attention to for the sake of their GPA.  For these students the presentation of the material is not too important as long as the class is going at a satisfactory pace.  However, if the pace must be slower than they would prefer, giving Jason-like students extra interesting details, in the form of comments made in class or extra credit work, can keep them interested.
	For those intelligent students who view school as a burden, a reasonably challenging curriculum masked by energetic and creative teaching is ideal.  Calvin, from the comic strip Calvin and Hobbes, exemplifies of this type of student.  Calvin traditionally wants to do something else besides school work, normally because other things are more interesting to him.  He tends to be fairly lazy, but often becomes passionately engrossed in something that interests him.  Therefore, to get Calvin-like students learning one must make the material interesting to them, but this is easier said than done.  A passion and energy for the things being taught can help a teacher a great deal in getting these students excited and interested.  However, if the rate of progression cannot keep these intelligent kids interested they will eventually move back to their lazy ways and find something else to spend their intellectual energy on.
	Dedicated, yet not particularly book-smart students tend to do best with a fairly challenging syllabus and generous helpings of praise.  These students are similar to Charlie Brown from the popular Peanuts cartoon strip.  They always try and work hard and are dedicated, although due to their normally mediocre grades it is easy for them to get discouraged.  Because of this, praise and encouragement can go a long way in helping one of these students stay interested in and succeed in a course.  In addition, giving Charlie Brown-like students creative ways to remember the material and discussing work done outside of school can help them memorize material and make sure they don’t fall behind.  That said, these students tend to get impatient if the class is going too slow, although not as much as their more intelligent counterparts.
	The students who don’t care much about school and are not very bright, similar to Dagwood from the Blondie cartoons, need very engaging and energetic teaching.  Dagwood-like students tend to do next to nothing when it comes to outside work and often spend their much of their time watching TV and like to party on the weekends.  They normally want to do anything but work, unless of course they are being paid, and are heavily influenced by popular culture, which tends to portray intelligence and work-ethic as bad things.  To get these kids interested in class, a teacher has to make the material “cool.”  Giving these students creative ways to remember things by relating class material to pop culture or something otherwise interesting to them tends to work well.  Energy and charisma also help immensely when trying to reach these lethargic students, who don’t have much of a reason to care about what a teacher is saying but tend to be drawn to engaging personalities.
	Taking all of these students into account, a teaching style that is engaging and exciting while still challenging and encouraging is ideal.  The more intelligent students benefit from the challenges, while the less intelligent students can keep up with a reasonable pace.  Dedicated students need encouragement to keep them that way, while students who are not traditionally interested in school benefit from an engaging and energetic classroom atmosphere.  While for some students school may not be as important as partying or sports, an energetic, engaging, encouraging and slightly challenging academic atmosphere will at least keep them learning.
Death of a Salesman Essay
In Death of a Salesman by Arthur Miller, Linda, the wife of the main character, Willy, admonishes her middle-aged husband for dreaming about going to Alaska to make a fortune by saying: “Enough to be happy right here, right now.  Why must everyone conquer the world?  You're well liked, and the boys love you.”  Here Linda is saying that people should not spend all their time striving for more but should appreciate and enjoy what they have.  This applies to the play in that Willy is a salesman of mediocre success who will not give up his dreams of glory and prestige, and projects those onto his son, Biff.  This grates on Biff, who has different views on the matter, and also drives Willy to insanity and suicide.  My stance on Linda's sentiment is that what one has should not be taken for granted but that dreams and goals are necessary to give one a sense of meaning and purpose.  Putting too much emphasis on one or the other and upsetting the balance between them is bad.
	Willy's approach to this issue is the extreme of always pushing for more and wanting to “conquer the world.”  He focuses all of his energy on his dreams and goals to the point of self-delusion.  He often enters into a dream world where he relives idealized memories and talks to Ben, his brother whom he idolizes as amodel for a successful life.  During these scenes Willy is always spewing rhetoric about how being well-liked can bring a man riches, and that popularity is the basis for success.  
	This complete focus on fantasy causes him to take for granted what he has, most notably his supportive family.  He takes for granted his son Happy, who has always looked up to him and has patterned his thought processes after his father's.  When Happy tells Willy that he will be married, Willy says simply “keep up the good work” and shows no further interest.  He also largely ignores and puts down Linda.  When Linda attempts to give Biff encouragement and input before he sees Bill Oliver, Willy continuously yells at her to “stop interrupting!” and doesn't allow her to complete a thought.
	The one member of his family he does not take for granted is his oldest son, Biff.  Biff was a popular football player in high school, and Willy, seeing his own popularity as a salesman, which was not that great in the first place, wane, projects his delusions of grandeur onto Biff.  Biff's resistance to Willy's way of thinking offers Willy one more to dream about conquering.
	Willy's drastic actions after being fired demonstrate the dangers of his viewpoint.  With his own dreams now in ruins, he tries even harder to get Biff to adopt his viewpoint.  Even when Biff refuses and begs him to give up his hopeless dreams, telling him that they're both “a dime a dozen,” Willy grabs on to the fact that Biff cried to him and proclaims that Biff will be “magnificent.”  He then concludes that the best course of action is to kill himself so that Biff can have the $20,000 from Willy's life insurance.  However, the family does not receive the life insurance money in the event of a suicide, and Biff still saw Willy's dreams as the wrong ones.  Thus Willy failed, again.  In becoming attached to unrealistic dreams and never being satisfied he guaranteed that he would always be a failure.
	On the other hand, it is a natural drive to want more.  Struggling to achieve more can give one purpose or direction in life.  During the summer, after the novelty of not having to do anything and the joy of sleeping all the time wears off, my natural inclination is to try to find something challenging to keep me occupied.  It is all too easy to become bored with the way things are, especially as novelty is a very attractive thing.  This can be seen in the play through Happy's numerous sexual adventures and in real life through the obsession many in our culture have with buying things and using them only for a short time before they move on to something else.
	The fact that such behavior is natural, however, does not justify its negative consequences, and so one must try to find balance, as Linda suggests.  Having some goals that are not unrealistic but are specific and attainable prevents boredom but also makes one less prone to dangerous obsession and mentally disastrous failure.  It is easy to get overwhelmed and simply sit and play with possibilities if dreams are too large and daunting.  Also, enjoying the benefits of one's efforts helps to motivate future efforts and is enjoying what one has.  Thus, Biff's attitude by the end of the play is a good example of this balance.  He sets his goals at an attainable level based on his experiences, recognizes his limitations and shortcomings, and does the simple things that bring him satisfaction as opposed to always fighting for satisfaction and then becoming dissatisfied again.  While this approach makes any kind of great accomplishments impossible, those who take it find themselves much more satisfied and fulfilled with life.
	The tragedy of Willy Loman's demise is not only that he was a complete failure, but that his predicament was preventable.  Attempting to balance the urge to conquer with a healthy appreciation of what one already has can prevent such a tragedy from happening.
Society and the Individual
	At the end of A Doll’s House by Henrik Ibsen, Nora decides to leave her husband Torvald and her children in order to establish her own identity.  Torvald accuses her of neglecting her responsibilities to her family, and she responds by implying that her duties to herself are more important.  While the responsibility of an individual to himself is more important than the individual’s responsibilities to society, the two need to be balanced.  Fulfilling one’s responsibility to oneself is also fulfilling a responsibility to society at large.
	The individual responsibility to the self is more important than the responsibility to society because as an individual one has to be able to live with oneself.  At the play’s end, Nora is “confused” about what she thinks and believes and is dissatisfied with her life as Torvald’s “songbird.”  In my own experience, it is very hard to function and interact with other people when one is uncertain of one’s own identity and is without a sense of purpose.  Both of these things decrease confidence, which leads to uncertainty and inaction.  These are not only negative for the person experiencing them but detrimental when attempting to perform one’s duties to society.
Also, because the only thing one has full possession and awareness of is oneself, individual duties are more important.  Without a solid sense of self, people can make major blunders that affect those they care about and have responsibilities toward.  Krogstad was striving for a more prestigious social identity and in the process used forgery and deception in order to get ahead, but was caught and suffered the consequences.  His mistakes nearly cost him his job and would have had very detrimental effects on his children if Mrs. Linde had not come along and offered to join forces with him.
To be able to function in society and fulfill responsibilities towards others it is necessary to have first taken care of oneself.  If one fails to do this then one can be mentally or physically debilitated.  A very basic example of this is if one does not eat one’s ability to function in society will be severely debilitated.  The same is true if one is not mentally stable or is dissatisfied and disillusioned.  These conditions make it much more difficult to fulfill responsibilities and can make doing so seem impossible.  A common way to prevent this is spending time relaxing at home or on a vacation.  Without breaks and time away from responsibilities, people crack and have trouble performing their function in society.
While it is possible to perform some functions and fulfill some responsibilities without having “found oneself,” without a solid sense of self fulfilling the most important responsibilities is quite difficult.  Raising kids requires a solid sense of self.  Children look to their parents as role models and guides for how to live their lives.  They learn the most by imitating their parent’s behaviors.  If a parent is confused and without a sense of self it can be passed on to the child and cause them unnecessary difficulty in life.  While it is definitely possible to find oneself in the process of raising children, the process of child raising goes much more smoothly if one’s identity is already firmly established.
Responsibilities make up part of a person’s identity.  This is seen with Mrs. Linde and Krogstad coming together and essentially agreeing to give each other purpose by getting married.  However, humans also feel the need to have something personal define them.  For most people, thoughts, opinions and beliefs fill this void.  Anything that is done or accomplished without outside help can also make up this part of a person’s identity.  Nora is searching for this definition from within when she leaves Torvald saying “what the books say is no longer enough for me.  I have to think about these things for myself and see if I can’t find the answers.”
While Nora has the right idea with taking some time away from her life and family to establish a sense of self on her own, a permanent split is not the best approach.  While humans need this personal sense of self more than all else, the expectations of the society in which they live also plays an important role in shaping their identity.
Society tends to get the most time and effort because of punishments and negative consequences of neglecting such responsibilities

Last year I was Nora: I abandoned all religion, tradition, cut myself off from society, sat in my room by myself for hours thinking and philosophizing, try to find a higher truth.  I have become disillusioned with this search, and I see my most probable next course of action in my thoughts for Nora: take a vacation to find yourself, but once you have a start at finding yourself come back to your children and your home and work from within to change what you perceived as wrong.  I think it is about time for me to return to the Catholic Church and do what I can to be its most loathed member.  But then I feel like a sell-out, like I’m giving up what I’ve gained through my experience of floating around in the world of ideas.  However, isn’t it the ultimate test of how well I have matured and discovered myself to go back into the environment I was raised in and see how I fare at asserting my own identity?  

How do you assert your own identity within society?  How do you balance the expectations of others and being true to your own identity?  

One idea I haven’t entertained for a while was that to truly understand anything you must rip it apart, find everything possibly negative and bad about it, bash it to a bloody pulp and spit on the remains, and then reconstruct it, build it back up again.  I have been doing this with myself in general: my beliefs, my routines and generally how I think and live my life.  

I’ve been searching for a magic bullet, something outside myself to bring me peace, happiness, whatever.  I’m not going to find it.  It doesn’t exist.  I can be as religious as I damn well please but if there isn’t any change on the inside I can’t achieve this.  I think that change on the inside will have to be the cessation of my bodily functions if I want to find true peace.  For now, there is purpose in the struggle.

“Oh but Torvald – I don’t really know what religion is”
-religion provides a sense of permanency, something outside of oneself that never changes and is well established, roots
-it provides an explanation for the human condition and a means of overcoming it
-it serves as a bridge between personal needs and societal needs

I don’t have opinions anymore.  I’m disillusioned with self-expression.  I hate writing except on the rare occasions that I feel inspired to.  I just don’t care.  Nothing is sacred except my own consciousness.  Always controlled and subdued and rarely intuitive.  I’m just a weak walking bag of meat.  Is it strange that I find encouragement in such words?  Strange that I when someone compliments me I want to prove to them that they’re wrong: I am not wise, not intelligent, not talented, nothing.  Just dead and haunting the living.  Nothing to live for, nothing to die for.  Stuck here.  A broken and contorted piece of debris floating around in a raging sea.  Controlled by the ebb and flow of the waves and the tides, no purpose or direction, just floating aimlessly.
The smell of incense still lingered in the now silent cathedral.  The sickening odor of coagulating blood, however, was beginning to overpower the holier scent.  Standing in front of the altar, which had just been used for its original purpose, Dominik inhaled deeply.  He much preferred the new scent.  He had a Germanic look to him, with shoulder length brown hair, blue eyes, and a prominent nose that gave him an aura of wolfishness.  His claymore still rested in his powerful hands, which were guided by strong but surprisingly lean arms and an athletic body.  The sword was massive, with a double-sided 42 inch blade that was now covered in blood.
The altar now looked like a battle zone, or, more precisely, an ancient pagan altar.  Dominik had entered through a back door and had come up behind the altar, where the archbishop had been saying mass.  His consecration of the Holy Eucharist had been cut short by a swift swing of Dominik’s black steel blade.  His head had flown off his shoulders in a spray of blood, sprinkling the front row of the congregation as the archbishop’s head had bounced down the steps leading up to the altar.
*have someone run up to the altar in disbelief and horror and get chopped up*
The congregation was now gaping in unspeakable horror at the spectacle before them.  Dominik smiled a toothy smile, his eyes blazing and eager.  They were afraid of him.  Not a soul stirred as he stood over the decapitated body of the archbishop, whose severed neck was still pumping blood onto the altar.  As it began to drip from the altar onto the cathedral floor, Dominik threw his head back and let loose a primal yet triumphant scream.  It was so blood-curdling that it set off a chain reaction of shrieks and terrified cries among the faithful.  They broke into a state of pandemonium and began fleeing towards the exits.  Parents grabbed their fascinated and crying children and all poured out into the aisles, coalescing into a stream of humanity bent on reaching the doors.  
The only person who remained behind was a pious old woman in the first row, still hunched over in prayer.  Her bluish-white hair was flecked with blood from the fierce decapitation of the archbishop.  Dominik’s face sobered and adopted an offended scowl.  He stalked arrogantly down the stairs, off the altar and up to the old woman, holding his claymore menacingly before him.
“You, old woman,” he said in a deep, gruff voice, “why did you not run like the rest?”
The din from the herd increased, distressed wailing issued from the multitude.  A loud banging sound reached Dominik’s ears.  He smiled like a shark.  Before entering the church, he had locked all the exits.
“As you said, I am an old woman,” she replied, head still bowed.  “I have neither the need nor ability to run.”
“If you value your life, you should run.”
The noise from the congregation increased.  People ran to side exits, slamming their shoulders into them, trying to get out.  Not one of them budged.
“”
Dominik squinted angrily at the woman.  He shook his head and growled at her.
“
“You want to see more people die?!” Dominik snarled, suddenly in the old woman’s face.
/SUCKS – [I need something more provoking, something that gets at Dominik’s internal conflict, the one he cannot resolve.  Possibly kill the woman?]
He ran towards the back door, claymore poised.
“Have you ever seen a person cut in two?!?” he asked, raging.
People scattered as he drew nearer, diving over each other, pushing and tripping away from his advance.  Seeing this, Dominik smiled crazily and swung his massive sword with all his strength.  Despite their efforts, the wide arch of the claymore cleaved through a cluster of people, slicing a middle-aged woman into two clean pieces at the waist, severing a man’s spinal chord and ripping through the head of a child.  

Once again, silence washed over the cathedral.  The smell of incense was gone now, completely eradicated by the stench of fresh blood.  For the first time since its construction, the building was at peace.
I was an angry child
	Last summer, on the way home from a family vacation in Colorado, my mother asked me a question:
	“Jimmy, why do you play those violent games?”
	At first I didn’t know where to start.  There were many reasons I still played an occasional shoot-um-up, most of which were still unclear to me.  I stumbled a bit, trying to put my rationale into words.  I don’t quite remember what I told her, but the question has stuck in my mind.
	Many concerned parents have been disturbed by violent video games, to the point where some have made them a political issue.  For those concerned parents, I would like to examine the reasons behind the popularity of violent games through the lens of my personal experience with them.
	During my early grade school years I wasn’t extremely well-liked.  I was very sensitive, and reacted drastically to teasing.  The other kids picked on me regularly because they found my dramatic reactions entertaining.  Eventually they stopped, but I was an angry child because of those experiences.  By the time I was in 5th grade I was regularly getting in fights with a certain kid who still liked to pick on me.  He often brought up old hurts and made comments that he knew would get a rise out of me.  I remember one specific time when he made a particularly aggravating string of comments while I was at the drinking fountain.  I chased him back into the classroom, exploding through the door and pushing him down into a desk as hard as I could, right in front of the entire class and my teacher.  I was a violent kid, but I had never played a violent game.
	By the time I was in 6th grade the kid I always fought with had transferred to a different school, but I was still fairly disgruntled and just as sensitive as before, although I tried to hide it.  During my 5th grade year I had become infatuated with pop culture and had joined the “popular” crowd.  All my friendships from about 5th through 7th grade, excluding family of course, were very superficial.  I would keep up with the trends and talk about them with my crowd over lunch and in class, but I didn’t have anything close to a real relationship – most of my life centered on fads, material things and the ever-changing social dynamics of my little world.  I was surrounded by people, but alone.
	It was during this time, in 7th grade, that I first became familiar with violent games.  One of my acquaintances had recommended the computer game The Sims, a fairly tame simulation game, and so I traveled to Best Buy to make a purchase.  While I was there, a game on the shelf caught my eye.  It was called No One Lives Forever, a campy spoof on 60’s spy movies.  Each level consisted of mainly blasting through tons of baddies with various weapons and gadgets, much like a James Bond film.  Though I didn’t appreciate most of the humor, the game was still quite hilarious.  The intriguing story and challenging gameplay stole me away from The Sims, which I barely even touched, and I finished the game with surprisingly speed.
	Though I cannot remember what immediate affect this game had on me, it definitely piqued my interest in computer games.  By that time I had become quite computer savvy, having experimented with our new Dell, and become familiar with the internet.  During this time I somehow, presumably by using my fledgling computer skills, came across what was, and still is, the most popular online computer game in the world: Counter-Strike.
	The basic premise of Counter-Strike (CS) is fairly simple: a player connects to a game server, which connects him with other players.  He then join either the counter-terrorist (CT) or terrorist team, and each team tries to eliminate the other.  Certain maps, or virtual worlds in which the game is played out, have objectives, such as rescuing hostages for CT’s or bombing a specified bomb site for terrorists.  To win a round, a team needs some basic strategy and skill with the quasi-realistic weapons, which kill an opponent in only a few shots.  Once a round ends, a new one begins, and every 20 minutes or so the map changes.  CS doesn’t get repetitive because you play against real people, so each and every round is different.  This game was more or less a constant for me for around two years.
	In the summer between 7th and 8th grade I finally admitted to myself that I was not very happy with my social life and had very few, if any, real friends.  I spent most of my summer surfing the web and reading Tom Clancy novels, and would rarely hang out with kids my age.  Right before school started I bought and began playing CS.  Right around that time I went over to a friend’s house and was surprised and thrilled that he had also just bought CS.  I remember playing with him and another friend, his neighbor, and when I left we promised to call each other and play together.  Over the next few weeks we discussed CS constantly, and when school started our conversation spilled over into the first days of class.  Through our enthusiasm, a few other disgruntled kids who I had just begun developing friendships with also bought the game, and we would regularly play together, trading war stories over the internet, during lunch and in the halls.  Our enthusiastic and animated accounts of particularly skillful kills, well-placed grenades and impressive body counts drew ridicule from the popular crowd, but we didn’t care.  An especially close friend and I strongly disliked them, and so their opinion no longer mattered.  On weekends we would play for hours together, often going to each others houses to play CS, hang out and spend the night.  I now had a social life, however pathetic, and was starting to develop some real and lasting relationships.
	In 8th grade most boys tend to have high testosterone levels, and my class was no different.  After lunch the popular crowd regularly went into the bathroom, where scuffles and sometimes full-blown brawls would erupt.  I generally never went in, mainly because I never had to use the bathroom after lunch.  However, at this time my friends and I still sat at the table with the popular crowd, albeit at the opposite end, and the lunchroom was the place where these “fights” were organized.  One day, one of the strongest popular kids wanted to fight with me in the bathroom after lunch.  We had never really gotten along; he seemed to resent that I didn’t care what he and his cronies thought, never bending to his whims, and I regarded him as more or less a stupid bullying oaf, and disliked his attitude that he ruled the school.  After lunch I headed to the bathroom, pretended to take a leak, and then ambled over to the sink to wash my hands.  One of the kids asked:
	“Hey, you gonna fight or what?  You a pussy or somethin’?”
I turned around and replied:
	“Nah.  Why would I want to fight him?  He’d kill me anyway – so what’s the point?”
	I shot the room a goofy smile, furthering their bafflement, and walked out the door.
	As I grew older and entered into high school my CS habit came with me.  I always tried to get my homework done early so I could play with my friends.  It was an entertaining stress reliever, and I soon became an expert at channeling my negative energies into the athletic detachment, letting base instincts and reflexes take over, which bred success in the fast-paced, never-ceasing competition.  One of my friends joined a “clan”, a group or set team of serious gamers who play together, battling other clans in player-run leagues.  I also played with them, albeit not as a member of the clan, and got a glance at the lives of teens in Southern California, Toronto and Oregon.  Even now, a year or so after the clan broke up, my friend still chats regularly with his clan buddies.  As time went on I started playing less and less, and eventually got to the point where I played only occasionally.  However, most of the friendships formed during my CS days are still going strong, independent of any one activity.  My social life has become a bit less pathetic, and I am a much less disgruntled human being.
	Overall, I think violent video games have had a positive impact on my life.  For me, it’s not about the virtual violence, but about the teamwork, tactics, camaraderie, and social interaction that happens through that medium.  It is an escape, like literature or film, and can be a like team sport, promoting teamwork and social interaction.  I am no parent, but as I see it, completely cutting kids off from games, or any form of media for that matter, can be detrimental in the long run.  Censorship only stifles growth.
Revenge Is a Dish Best Not Served
	In Shakespeare’s Hamlet, the title character seeks revenge for his father’s death.  In the process of avenging his father he brings revenge upon himself, loses his life, and causes the deaths of his loved ones as well.  The play shows that revenge, particularly involving murder, is bad because it perpetuates violence and hastens one’s demise, all while corrupting the avenger and perpetuating wrongdoing.
	Revenge only perpetuates morally wrong behavior and is thus bad.  Revenge is the reciprocation of a perceived wrong.  In the play, Hamlet seeks to kill Claudius because he murdered Hamlet’s father and then married his mother shortly after.  This is a traditional path for revenge: someone is killed and those that cared about the slain person feel that the murderer deserves the same fate, if not a worse one.  In this way, Hamlet takes the punishment of Claudius into his own hands.  But by doing so he also sets himself up for the same kind of punishment he is exacting, as people will fight for their life, especially if they feel justified in the action which brought the threat of revenge upon them.  Humans fear the unknown of death and so their will to live is strong, as is explained in Hamlet’s “to be, or not to be” soliloquy.  Even if the attempt at revenge is successful, the loved ones of the person who was the target of revenge are very likely to take the same attitude towards the avenger as he did towards their loved one.
	On the other hand, it might be argued that revenge is justly punishing those who have committed a wrong and so has good qualities.  However, revenge is not justice.  Revenge implies retaliatory action fueled by the emotions and hurt pride of an individual who feels he has been wronged.  When a person feels they have been wronged these emotions are particularly strong and cloud good judgment and reasoning.  This makes it very difficult for revenge to be just because the process by which the person is decided worthy of punishment and the subsequent degree of punishment are based on the irrational and ill-considered opinions of one incredibly biased person.  In the play, for example, Laertes avenges his father’s death by killing Hamlet.  He never considers the circumstances of the murder and is very brash, claiming that he is willing “to slit his throat in a church.”  This means that Laertes wants to avenge his father even if it means eternal damnation.
	This leads to the point that seeking revenge inevitably corrupts and brings the avenger down to the level of the person he is attempting to punish.  When a person reciprocates a bad action he lowers himself to the level of the person he has deemed worthy of punishment.  Thus revenge does not counter balance or atone for the misdeed but in fact multiplies and spreads the lack of morality.
	This corruption spreads and has negative affects on those the avenger loves as well.  Hamlet’s obsession with revenge leads him to rashly kill Polonius while confronting his mother in her bed chamber.  Ophelia, Hamlet’s love interest and Polonius’s daughter, is driven mad by this, which results in her untimely demise.  This murder also drives Laertes into moral corruption and Hamlet becomes a victim of his revenge.  This final plot against Hamlet not only takes his life but also that of his largely innocent mother.
	It could also be argued that seeking revenge brings meaning and purpose to life.  However, self-corruption and a hasty demise are a harsh price to pay for purpose.  If Hamlet had not taken Claudius’s punishment upon himself, he had a love for Ophelia and kingship to look forward to and derive meaning from later in life.  As noted before, revenge is destructive and so while seeking revenge may give purpose it also ends life more quickly.  However, a peaceful life of leadership, service and love will last much longer and maximize fulfillment.
	Shakespeare’s Hamlet is a damning treatise on revenge.  It shows how revenge ends life prematurely and perpetuates evil, making it bad for all those involved.
An Infringement of Common Sense
Copyright infringement has become a large problem on the internet today.  Hundreds of millions of people illegally share copyrighted music and movies over the Internet.  One proposed solution to this serious issue is the “Inducing Infringement of Copyrights Act of 2004,” or the IICA, which is currently under Judicial Review in the United States Senate.  This act should not be passed because it is overly broad and could stifle innovation.
The IICA states that anyone who “intentionally induces” copyright infringement is liable for that instance of copyright infringement (SOURCE).  The IICA defines “intentionally induces” to mean “intentionally aids, abets, induces, or procures, and intent may be shown by acts from which a reasonable person would find intent to induce infringement based upon all relevant information about such acts then reasonably available to the actor” (IICA Original).  To the Senators credit, recent drafts have attempted to clarify this vague language, but have only slightly successful (IICA 10/1 Draft).  While the language now excludes devices such as VCRs and CD-burners, and specifically targets distributors of peer-to-peer (P2P) programs, the type of software used by the majority of illegal file-sharers.  
Even with its clarifications, the bill is overly broad.  To say the P2P programs themselves “induce” illegal file-sharing is inaccurate.  P2P software uses the internet to create a decentralized network between computers running that software.  Once connected to that network, a user can then share files from his computer and search files made available by other computers on the network.  Thus, this technology, like all other internet technologies, is inherently neutral – it allows to you to transfer files and nothing more.  
Every time you visit a web page, you are receiving a file from another computer that the web browser program displays as a web-page.  P2P allows for a similar file transfer, except it places no limits on the type or recipient of a file.  All the P2P software does is connect to the network and allow the user to search the network, much like a web browser.  While it can be used for illegal purposes, it can be used for legal ones just as well.
Concerning previous cases where there has been a device or technology that could be used illegally, the rulings have always been that the creators of those tools cannot be in any way held accountable for the crime.  Unless the distributors of these tools know that a certain person is going to use their tools to commit a crime, the distributors/creators cannot be held accountable (Miller).
The other issue brought up by Senator Orrin Hatch, the original sponsor of this bill, is that distributors of P2P software “induce” people to share files illegally (Hatch).  Senator Leahy, the head of the Senate Judiciary Committee, has stated that it is not the Senate’s intent to stifle the development of “legitimate consumer technologies” (Peters).  By the definition above, it is reasonable to consider P2P a legitimate consumer technology.  While some companies have explicitly based their companies around illegal file-sharing, the vast majority of companies and groups that develop this software do not advocate illegal file-sharing and have disclaimers on their web-pages and a Terms of Service agreement integrated into the installation processes of their software that say that using the software to share copyrighted works is breaking that Terms of Service as well as the law.  Taking that into consideration, most P2P software distributors would not be affected by this legislation. 
Even if a ban on P2P technology were passed, it would be nearly impossible to enforce.  The decentralized nature of these file-sharing systems makes it virtually impossible to shut them down; it would require everyone with the program to never run it again.  Considering the fact that there are hundreds of millions of copies of these programs on individual computers, this is pretty much an impossible proposition.  The P2P programs could even still be distributed, albeit in a more fractured, decentralized manner (Parker 6).
There are better, more constructive solutions to this problem than this flawed bill.  Already businesses like Apple Computer have set up legal music download services.  However, these don’t allow for the freedom of P2P and thus have not become as widely used.  This is a step in the right direction of identifying the customer’s wants and catering to them.  Also, the Senators should be commended for working to address this issue—they’re just going about it in looking at an overly simple solution.
Unfortunately, neither Apple’s service nor the IICA goes far enough in addressing the real issues that are brought up by this controversy: how music should be distributed and how artists should be compensated.  It is reasonable to assume that consumers are indicating that they want to use the internet to get music, and that they don’t want to pay the full price for an album to only get a couple songs that they want.  However, the artists need to be compensated for their work.  Before, record companies acted as a mediator between the consumer and the artist.  Because of the physical limits involved in distributing recorded music at the time, this setup was the most convenient for both the artists and the consumers.  With the internet, the barriers of physical space that necessitated this relationship in the past have become inconsequential.  It costs nothing to copy a music file on a computer.
The IICA does not address these issues, but instead looks for an easy scapegoat for the record industries current woes.  Because of this huge shift in technology and consumer wants, Congress should be looking at what they can do in terms of updating copyright laws as opposed to attempting to ban a technology that gives consumers an outlet to vent their frustrations.In The Boarding House, Joyce shows that because a person cannot directly provide everything he/she needs, he/she becomes so dependent on other people that the absolute independence he/she yearns for is unattainable.  Through dreams, idealizations, and fantasies people can appease their sense of needing independence while still surviving in their societies.  However, these same ideals are often twisted to accommodate human nature.
Plot Summary: A woman starts a boarding house.  She finds out her 19 year-old daughter is having an affair with one of the young men who boards there.  She waits to see how far it will go and then confronts the two about it.  The young man is presented with a choice: run away or marry the girl.  He chooses marriage.  The girl is afraid but then dreams of a better life with her soon-to-be husband, and momentarily forgets her troubles.
Examples: choices between flight or accepting fate: “What could he do now but marry her or run away?”  “He had a notion he was being had.”
restricting freedom of others who have restricted theirs – “For her only one reparation could make up for the loss of her daughter’s honor: marriage.”  “Even his sense of honor told him that reparation must be made for such a sin.”
pervasive religious imagery – “which made her look like a perverse Madonna.” “It was a bright Sunday morning.”
We All Live in a Yellow Submarine
	“The more I study religions the more I am convinced that man never worshipped anything but himself.”
	- Sir Richard Francis Burton
In “The Boarding House” by James Joyce, a butcher’s daughter with an abusive drunkard husband runs a boarding house in order to distance herself from him.  She allows her daughter to loosely court the men who stay there, and when the daughter has an affair with a well-off man the mother forces him to marry her daughter.  Joyce uses this story to show how the social institution of religion is used to justify actions, regardless of whether those actions are good or bad.  He suggests that religion, like all other human institutions, was created merely to accommodate human nature, not to change or perfect it.
In the exposition of the story, Joyce shows the reader various other social institutions, their moral neutrality and that the morality of the actions done through them reflects the morality of the individual who performs the action.  The history of the Mooney family, the central family of the story, best exemplifies this.  Mrs. Mooney, a butcher’s daughter, married her father’s assistant and opened a butcher shop with him.  After Mrs. Mooney’s father died, “Mr. Mooney began to go to the devil,” drinking and driving them into debt.  His destructive behavior culminated in an attempt to knife his wife, leading to their separation, with the consent of a priest.  Mrs. Mooney then began a boarding house, while Mr. Mooney went to work for the sheriff.  In this family history, the butcher business is used not only to provide the means for survival for the family and meat for the community, but also provides a social basis through which Mrs. Mooney is married to Mr. Mooney.  In the same way, Mr. Mooney uses that business to fund his drinking habit and to get into debt, which causes him to buy bad meat, ruining his business.  These problems eventually lead to his use of a meat cleaver to try to stab his wife.  The business in itself is morally neutral; it serves a social function, but it has the capacity to be used for actions with moral implications.
Joyce then continues to say that religion is no different.  Like other social institutions it was created by people for people, and like all others is fundamentally neutral.  In the story, Polly Mooney, Mrs. Mooney’s daughter, had an affair with one of the men who lived at the boarding house.  Mrs. Mooney heard of this and allowed it to continue, as she had done with other men, watching the two from a distance.  “When she judged it to be the right moment, Mrs. Mooney intervened.  She dealt with moral problems as a cleaver deals with meat.”  She questioned her daughter directly, eliciting a confession.  She then decides to directly confront her daughter’s lover, the financially secure Mr. Doran, and forces him into agreeing to marry her daughter.  “She had all the weight of public opinion on her side.”  As the quote insinuates, Mr. Doran essentially had no choice in the matter. Word of the affair was spreading outside of the boarding house, and so if he did not marry Polly he could have lost his job because his employer of thirteen years was a “great Catholic.”  In addition, a local priest had drawn out every detail of his sin in the confessional, embarrassing him and making him feel guilty.  Mrs. Mooney uses these social factors to limit Mr. Doran to two choices: marry Polly or run away.  As Mrs. Mooney’s example demonstrates, in a society thoroughly saturated with religious dogmatism, such as Catholic Ireland, a person’s moral fiber has little to do with his or her religion.
Joyce makes this point with the believable story of a mother who uses the Catholic honor code to “get [her] daughter off [her] hands.”  He demonstrates that people can and do use respected and exalted social institutions to help carry out and justify morally wrong actions.  Although the Catholic Church, like other religions, states that its purpose is to help and improve humanity, as a social institution it can be used to take the moral low road as well as the moral high road.
Through “The Boarding House,” Joyce shows that the morality of actions justified through the social institution of religion is relative to the person who is acting, not the particular religion. Religion is not what determines the moral goodness or badness of a person.  Therefore, people should not judge others solely by their religious beliefs.  Religious beliefs alone do not determine morality.
Good Morning, Suburbia
He was afraid.  He wasn’t sure exactly why, but the fear was there, like a silent person no one particularly liked that always tagged along.  He was walking down a tree-shaded side street in suburbia.  It was a warm morning, the first Saturday in April.  The road was a well-paved strip of black asphalt, with no cracks or potholes.  On either side of the street were well-manicured lawns, lush green carpets of carefully trimmed blades of grass.  They were dotted with young trees, skinny shafts of wood straddled by metal poles that were connected to the tree with wire, so as to keep the tree from growing crooked.  Behind the lawns sat large stucco houses, bland facades adorned with American flags, hiding a well organized collection of rooms, furniture and appliances.  Behind the dwellings were equally perfect lawns, filled with trampolines and swing sets, with not a fence in sight.
His pace quickened slightly as he moved down the street, his hands in his pockets.  A warm breeze rustled the leaf buds on a nearby tree.  A foul odor reached his nose.  He knew he had to get home, although he wasn’t completely sure why.
He walked up to his driveway towards the garage door.  His lawn was like all the others, well-trimmed and watered.  A little pink bike with training wheels lay on the fringe of the yard, by the driveway.  Reaching his garage door, he flipped open the cover on the keypad and punched in a code.  The door rose slowly.  Once it was about three-fourths of the way up he ducked under and into the garage.  In front of him were two shiny new cars, a Ford SUV and a Volvo sedan.  A space for a third car was filled with toys, bikes and balls, all neatly arranged in bins, racks and plastic containers.
The door into the house opened, and a little girl with pigtails and a cute pink outfit stuck her head out of the door.
“Daddy!” shrieked the little girl.
“Hi, sweetie,” he said, a faint smile coming to his lips.
“Daddy, Daddy, Mommy ordered pizza!” she exclaimed breathlessly.  “And look at my new outfit!”
She held her arms out and twirled around, showing off her new clothes.
“Wow,” he said, in the tone adults often use with little kids, “how pretty.”
“Yeah, I know!” she said excitedly, bounding away from her father and into the house.
He followed his bubbly daughter from garage and into his house.  Before stepping onto the hard-wood floors he wiped his feet on a friendly “welcome” mat.  The kitchen lay in front of him.  Protruding from the wall was a dark green marble counter with a chrome sink full of neatly stacked dishes.  Wooden cabinets hid the plumbing.  In the middle of the kitchen was a square wooden island, topped by the same green marble as the counters.  Next to the built in burners sat a pile of bills.  Beyond the island, at a small breakfast table sat a middle-aged woman, watching the news on a little TV.  Her hair was dyed blond, and she wore a tennis outfit.
“Hi, honey,” she said, not looking away from the television.  “Did you have a good walk?”
“Yeah, it was alright.  How was tennis?”
“Ugly,” she said, “we lost, but the other team cheated.”
“Really?  What’d you do about it?”
“We called ‘um out on it, but they denied it.  I got in a shouting match with one of the members of the other team.  She started it, but I won,” she said, smiling reflectively.
He laughed.  “Glad to hear it, babe.”
The breaking news from the television interrupted their conversation.
“Police are searching for a group of men in connection to last week’s prison break at the local jail.  The Chief of Police advises residents to keep garage doors closed and report any suspicious strangers immediately.  The men are considered to be extremely dangerous and could be armed with improvised weapons such as pipes, crowbars, bats . . .”
The doorbell rang.
“Pizza, pizza, pizza!” shrieked the little girl, running towards the door.
“I’ll get it,” the mother said, tearing herself away from the TV and getting up.
She walked to the door and looked out through the peephole.  Standing outside their door was a scowling, portly man, dressed in a dirty brown coat and brown pants.  He was carrying a crowbar.
The mother spun away from the window and put her back to the door, trembling.
“Don’t come near the door!” she whispered fiercely to her daughter.
“Mommy, what’s wrong?” asked the confused little girl, a hint of fear slipping into her voice.
“Shhhh!  Quick, go get your father!  Tell him there’s a bad man outside.  Quietly!”
The little girl’s eyes grew wider. 
“Okay,” she whimpered, running back into the house.
“What’s going on?” her father asked, looking concerned.
“Mommy said there’s a bad man outside the door!” she whispered, eyes wide.  “Please daddy,” she said, her voice high and squeaky, “don’t let the bad man get me!”
Her fathers eyes grew wide as well, and then his face hardened.
“I won’t let them hurt you, sweetie,” he assured her, wearing a resolute expression.  “Stay here.”
He quickly ran to his bedroom.  He grabbed a metal baseball bat from under the bed, and hurried back over to the garage door.  His daughter was sitting in a chair in the kitchen, shaking with fright.
The father opened the garage door slowly, peering out before stepping gingerly into the garage.  His bat poised, he walked slowly, like a stork, kicking one leg out and then setting it down carefully.  Muffled voices came from outside the garage.  He leaned forward and crept even slower, staring fixedly out the garage.  By the time he reached the driveway he was trembling slightly.
Suddenly, on his left, he saw a man striding purposefully around his house.  The man was about five feet away and carrying a crowbar.  The father jumped and dropped his bat, turning quickly back the way he came.
“Hey!” he heard the man with the crowbar yell.
The father sped up and rammed into the door, fumbling with the knob.  He got the door open and jumped inside, reaching out to hit the button that closed the garage just before slamming the door.  By this time he was shaking uncontrollably.  He glanced at his daughter, whose eyes looked as if they were going to pop out of their sockets.
“Did you get him daddy?”
“No, I tried but he fought me off.  We’ve got to get out of here!”
He ran through the kitchen, slightly hunched, grabbed his daughter and scurried to the front door.
His wife still had her back to the door, shaking and sobbing quietly.
“Come on!” the husband said, “get down on the floor and crawl over to me!  There’s a whole gang of ‘um!”
The woman tried to hold in a shriek but failed miserably.  She hit the floor and scuttled towards her husband, badly bruising her elbows and knees in the process.
“We’ve got to run for it!” her husband exclaimed.
“But our house!  Our cars!  My stuff!” she wailed.
They heard a footstep on the upstairs staircase.
“They’re in the house!” the little girl screeched.
The trio scampered to the back of the house.  A teenage boy, dressed in pajamas, came groggily down the remaining stairs, just in time to see his panicked family members stumbling and flailing into the back yard.  He scratched his head, shrugged, and started back upstairs.
His family members continued running.  The father and husband looked back and saw two men, both dressed in dirty brown coats and pants.  One nodded to the other and took off jogging after them.  The other turned back towards the house.
“They’re sending someone after us!” he cried.
The mother and daughter glanced back, saw the man following them, and yelped.  The mother tripped and fell flat on her face.
“Help! Don’t leave me!”
The husband grabbed his wife, pulling her up.  The man had gained on them.  They sped up and turned onto a street, screaming continuously.
They ran like this for several blocks until they reached the black fence that enclosed their gated community.  The man with the crowbar was still behind them, yelling periodically.  The gatekeeper heard the ruckus and came out to see what was happening.
“Help!” they screamed to the gatekeeper, “a criminal’s chasing us!”
“Whoa, there, settle down” the gatekeeper said as they reached him, “that’s no criminal.”
“What do you mean?” asked the wife breathlessly, “he has a crowbar!  His friends are looting our house!”
“He’s just a sewage worker the city sent over to fix the sewage leak you complained about, remember?  The crowbar is just to open up the manhole.”
The husband now remembered why had hurried to get home.
Shakespeare Wasn’t Dumb
	In Shakespeare’s Macbeth, the title character, upon hearing of his wife’s death, launches into his famous soliloquy:
“Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow
	Creeps in this petty pace from day to day
	To the last syllable of recorded time,
	And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
	The way to dusty death.  Out, out, brief candle!
	Life’s but a walking shadow, a poor player
	That struts and frets his hour upon the stage
	And then is heard no more.  It is a tale
	Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
	Signifying nothing.”
	This quote essentially says that life is short and meaningless.  More importantly, it brings up many important philosophical questions and provokes thoughts on the human condition.
More precisely, this quote says that life advances deliberately, halting for nothing and nobody, leading all people to the grave.  Furthermore, it has no underlying or intrinsic substance or meaning.  People try to make themselves feel significant by worrying over and caring about things that will eventually, like them, fade away and be forgotten.
	I agree that life has no underlying meaning.  If humans want meaning they have to invent it for themselves.  This causes conflict within and between people.  The limited amount of time we have to live amplifies this conflict by giving people a sense of urgency, thus causing them to “strut and fret” and be “full of sound and fury.”
But why is finding meaning so important?  Why the emotion and pain and struggle over this concept of deeper purpose and meaning?  It ties into the human quest for permanency and absolutes.  Words are used in an attempt to put ideas, thoughts and feelings into a more permanent state and get them outside ourselves out into the world so they can have a life of their own.  We try to share a part of ourselves with the world so that part of us may live on somewhere else, like in someone else’s mind or a library somewhere.  But human language is inevitably frustrating because of its limited capacity to convey feelings and thoughts.  Even if one does succeed in satisfactorily conveying and idea or feeling or something else from within the confines of the mind, eventually civilization will collapse and the earth will get hit by an asteroid or otherwise undergo some change that would destroy all life and all such things would be gone.  And so ultimately this quest is doomed to fail.  The best we can do is try to make an impact on the world around us today and be significant to someone, as when all of that is gone we will be too, and so the sting is lessened.
So then if life has no inherent meaning, and we must choose this meaning for ourselves, we have to decide what is important enough to define the course of our lives (assuming of course one doesn’t just commit suicide).  This inevitably leads people to trying to feeling good, and what feels good is, from an evolutionary perspective, what helps us survive, thrive and propagate.  So we generally choose to value what we enjoy and what makes us feel good and happy and fulfilled.  Invariably physical pleasure enters the equation and people end up passing on a part of themselves in the most real sense possible.  Others still subscribe to ideas denying the impermanence of all things and the insignificance of all things, such as those popular in modern Christianity.  People also establish and follow moral codes, which gives them a way to act and a reason for that way.  This makes action more consistent and brings order to life and the surrounding community.  Some of people go so far as to devote themselves to their ideals and attempt to gain power by converting others to their personal value system.  Returning to the play, Macbeth valued power above all things, too easily believing the prediction of the fiendish witches, and ended up paying a price that all of us ultimately pay in the end.  This qualifies him as tragic hero because he died fighting against the meaninglessness of life for something he valued.  In this way all humans are tragic heroes to some degree.  We are all actors as the soliloquy suggests, playing a self-appointed part in our brief time on stage.
Macbeth’s famous soliloquy, in enumerating the meaninglessness and brevity of life, brings up important questions about the human condition.  Absolute answers to these questions are elusive, and the process of thinking about them is quite a bit like life.
Viva Belice
	“Hey, where’re you guys from?” asked a white man standing in front of the general store.
	“We’re from the US; we’re down here on a mission trip,” I replied chirpily.
	He smiled reservedly.  “That’s good; how long are you here for?”
	“Just over a week or so.”
	“That’s good, how do you like it so far?”
	“I like a lot, it’s a cool place; the people are great.”
	“Yeah, I used to feel that way until just recently; I’m on my way out now.”
	“What happened?”
	 “Well I ran a business down here that got hit with a lawsuit and the whole process has just been frustrating.  The people down here are something else.” (this sentence is incredibly important and right now it doesn’t come close to conveying the idea it needs to)
	“Oh, that’s too bad, I’m sorry to hear that”
	“Yea, well *this sentence is fairly important too but I’m not sure what I want here*”
	Other possible Belize story topics: Mayan village, crazy Jamaican guard with a shotgun and no teeth.
TITLE
	“Guacamole Doritos are so much better than Nacho Cheesier Doritos!”
	“Dude, Guacamole is gross.”
	“Your face is gross.”
	“Ha, nice one, fag.”
	“Dude, you just gonna take that?” Sam interjected.
	“Hey!  Get yer dirty hands off my desert!”
	“How 'bout you stop being such a retard?”
	“Shut up fag, why don't you go down and sit with your paintball friends?”
	“Fight!” Matt yelled, laughing gleefully.
	“Yeah, settle it in the bathroom!”
	“Yeah, dude, we need to have, like, a huge brawl in the bathroom today!”
	“Hell yeah, man, we need some good match ups!”
	“Yesterday was so hilarious, Alex and John,” Matt burst out, laughing.
	“John was just, like, grabbing his shirt and pushing him.  Nice fighting strategy, idiot,” Rick sneered.
	“Shut up, dude, maybe I'll fight you next time and actually take it seriously.” he threatened.
	“What, you mean you'll bring your paintball gun to school and shoot me?” Rick jeered.
	“Seriously, dude, shut up.”
	“Guys, seriously, we need some more good fights; who can we match up?”
	I turned my attention away from that side of the lunch table towards my friends on the other end.
	“So, are we going paintballing this weekend?” Eric asked.
	“Dude, we should, last time was awesome,” Alex said.
	“Yeah, dude, Jimmy, you totally nailed me that one time I tried to sneak up on you,” Eric added.
	I laughed.
	“Yeah, I know, that was crazy; I saw you out of the corner of my eye and just started shooting.”
	“Dude, I totally would've had you if I'd known you were still in; I thought Michael got you.”
	“Nah, he tried to get me to surrender and I popped out and unloaded on him; he didn't hit me 'til after that.”
	“Yeah, dude, that was nuts.”
	“Yeah, dude, I need gloves really bad,” I noted.  “See where I got hit in the knuckle?”
	I showed him where my knuckle had been bleeding from a direct hit.
	“Ouch, that shit hurts.”
	The discussion of our paintball outing continued as I glanced down to the other side of the table.  Their conversation had progressed very little.
	“Nah, dude, Alex just fought yesterday.  What other paintball nerds should we get to fight?” John asked.  
	“What about Jimmy?”
	“Yeah! remember when he got in that fight with Andy in, like. 5th grade?  Oh my god, that was so funny, he was like all red and screamin' and shit!”
	“Yeah, someone should piss him off and fight him, that'd be hilarious.”
	“I'll fight him, maybe then he'll shut up about paintball,” Rick spat.
	The group murmured excitedly in approval.
	“Hey Jimmy!  Rick wants to fight you,” Matt jeered.
	I gave them a defiant, questioning look that barely concealed my horror.  I turned back to the paintball conversation, dreading the end of lunch, unable to think.
	“Throw out your trash!” commanded the vice principal, “Lunch time's over.”
	I got up tentatively, nearly tripping over the bench, still trying to maintain a look of composure.  The familiar walk from the cafeteria to the middle school hallway was a blur, my mind racing furiously.
	There is no way I'm fighting him, I thought, I'll get pulverized!  But I can't just wimp out and not show up, then he'd want to beat me up even more.
	This ambivalence remained as I walked into the bathroom, trying to look cool and composed.  I went immediately to the first open stall and pretended to pee.  All thoughts left me.  Outside, the excited chatter of the guys mixed with randomly thrown insults and denials of any intention to fight.
	I stayed in the stall for what seemed like an hour.  Gathering up my courage, I stepped out of the stall.  A few of the people closest to the stalls looked over with crooked smiles on their faces.
	“Hey, you guys gonna fight, or what?” John mocked.
	I walked over to the sink and began washing my hands.
	“You chickening out on us, Koppen?”
	“Yeah, come on, you gonna fight him or what?”
	I finished drying my hands and turned to leave.
	“Nah, why should I?  I've got no reason to and he'd kick my ass anyways.”
	A stunned silence briefly overtook the room. As I walked towards the door the bathroom banter began again, mixing with some hushed, unbelieving voices.  I ignored them.  Bending down at the drinking fountain just outside the door, I smiled to myself.
The Future is Open
The wide-spread success of projects such as the Linux operating system kernel and the Apache web server have brought open source software into the consciousness of the business world.  At the same time it has raised many fundamental questions: what exactly is open source software?  What distinguishes it from the software widely used now?  The answer to that question is this: open source software development returns a superior product as compared to traditional closed source development.  Because of this, businesses ought to switch to using open source software, or risk falling behind.
Open source software’s major advantage is in its definition.  Traditionally, software is closed source, meaning the source code, which allows programmers to tell the computer what to do in an understandable way, has already been turned into instructions the computer can understand (compiled into binary code), making it very difficult for the user to modify the source code. Even if the user does manage to decompile the binary code into an understandable programming language, licenses of closed source software make it illegal to modify or re-distribute. On the other hand, open source software (OSS) is characterized by the availability of the program’s source code.  The vast majority of OSS licenses allow the user to use, modify and re-distribute the code with very few constraints.  While this strongly discourages the sale of the software (and most popular OSS is free of charge), the technical benefits it begets are tremendous.  
One of the major benefits this allows for is large-scale peer review.  Most OSS projects are organized over the internet, which allows people from all over the world to collaborate on a project.  If an open source project addresses a widespread need, it draws many users.  An excellent example is the Linux project, started in 1991, which addressed the wide-spread need for an operating system kernel, the core software that makes a computer run.  Linux steadily gained popularity among programmers, really the only people using the internet at the time, and a community formed around it.  All users, by merely using the program, test it in a variety of operating environments, which allows bugs, or flaws in the program, to be quickly identified.  Users who have programming knowledge, because they need a stable program that does its job, often take advantage of the freedom open source gives them and help the developers by debugging code, identifying (and possibly fixing) security risks and adding useful features.  Large projects often have hundreds of contributors, which allow them to progress at an extremely rapid rate.  Now, twelve years later, the Linux community has created thousands of open source programs, each with their own development base, and built entire user-friendly operating systems with those programs around the Linux kernel, the core piece of code.
The community aspect, the pooling of talent by sometimes hundreds of people, is absent in closed source software.  This can have very negative affects on a business in the free-market economy. Many times programmers employed by software developers write code for a project that they will never use and are not motivated to create.  This short-coming of traditional software development is eliminated by open source, as developers and co-developers (users who contribute to the project on a smaller scale) are self-selected. Closed source also tends to promote the formation of monopolies.  Just look at any major software category and it is readily apparent that it is dominated by one company.  All major graphic design programs are created by Adobe, and Microsoft Windows and Office dominate the home operating system and office suite niches.  Businesses that rely on software made by monopolies take a tremendous risk.  Closed source products can only be modified, and therefore fixed, by the small group of programmers working on it.  If a company has a bug that is causing serious productivity problems, it wants the problem fixed as quickly as possible.  With an open source project, the source code is available and can be modified to fit the company’s specific configuration in house, or if that is not possible, the company has a community of users that can be used for help.  With closed source, you have neither of these options available, and have to rely solely on the developer to fix your problem, which is especially unlikely to happen in the case of a monopoly.  This can be paraphrased by saying that a company that is dependent on a closed vendor’s software has partially lost control over itself. 
Another little considered fact that advances open source software is that the software industry is a service industry under the mistaken assumption that it is a manufacturing industry.  A common misconception is that most software is sold.  In actuality, about 95% is developed for use only by the employer, and has no sale value because it is custom tailored to the specific business.  In addition, approximately 75% of time spent on software is maintenance and upkeep.  Due to the large variety of operating environments and natural human error, this is largely composed of debugging and fixing flaws.  In addition, developers must constantly make sure code is compatible with the latest from the rapidly evolving computer hardware industry.  Also, because software merely allows humans to interact with the computer hardware, software can be considered a service mechanism allowing people to utilize computer hardware. 
This argument also applies to the question of whether open source would cause programmers to lose their jobs.  On the contrary, open source seems to be creating new jobs.  While open source projects can take care of a need to a certain extent, there are always small business-specific tweaks and modifications to be made, including compatibility with operating conditions (hardware).   Also, as was stated before, around 95% of software is created for use by a single company.  This along with the maintenance factor of this custom code allows for roughly the same to even more programming jobs. 
While the advantages of open source software are numerous, businesses need to take several things into account before switching.  The first thing to consider is the business itself.  For the majority of businesses, Linux, the core of the major open source operating systems and the first big open source project, is a stable, flexible platform, with many open source programs available for nearly any task imaginable.  Also, it provides a robust platform for building custom solutions.  However, one example where Linux is not the best choice is graphic design.  Apple Macintosh computers have much better tools and hardware for the job.  While some open source projects are working to compete with Apple in that category, they have not yet managed to catch up.  Interestingly, the core of Mac OS X, Apple’s latest operating system, is actually an open source project based on Unix, which is what Linux is based on as well.  The other things to consider are how difficult it will be to switch and train employees to use the software.  Learning to administer a Linux system/network after running Windows is a harsh learning process (much less so when switching from Unix), but once the short adjustment period is over most find that Linux is much more stable and easier to maintain.
Right now awareness of open source software, especially Linux, is at a boiling point.  As it seeps into the international conscience, businesses need to know what it is and how and if they should utilize it to stay up to speed.  Because open source software returns a superior result quicker as compared to traditional software development, every company should seriously consider switching to open source software.
	From the viewport I saw [the planet] as a tiny dot in the vast vacuum of space.  The preliminary scans had yielded intriguing results: a thick atmosphere, containing high concentrations of [nitrogen and oxygen], and, most importantly, water.  As we drew closer my excitement mounted: here was the first planet yet discovered with the potential for earth-like life.
	As we drew nearer the planet’s geography became apparent.  The planet was wildly colorful, looking brown from a distance, but up close the colors were vibrant and distinct.  The tops of the planet’s flora were a bluish green, and the trunks below them, peaking through the leaves, varied from pleasant pink to blood red.  
Col. Paul Ptasnik
	On the first day of school sophomore year I walked into the computer labs for geometry class.  I had heard many rumors about Col. Ptasnik, my teacher.  He had seen some crazy stuff in Vietnam, people said, and it had driven him nuts.  Indeed my first impression of him had not been positive.  Buying books from him freshman year I had questioned whether I was charge the right price as he did not use a calculator to come up with the total.  He seemed very spaced out and strange as well.
	The first day of class did little to change this perception.  The nearly dressed, well-postured Colonel spoke strangely and verbally his ideas were rarely well connected.  His speech seemed almost bumbling at first and his tendency to look just above the heads of his students was disconcerting.  The icing on the cake was his motto for the year: “We're gonna sweat today so we don't bleed tomorrow.”  I found this somewhat scary but its apparent logic and appeal to work ethic was attractive.  I thought I was in for an interesting and challenging year.
	I was right.  At first I struggled with geometry.  I had it in my mind that I was not good and it and thus limited my classroom performance.  But one day the Colonel gave us two extremely challenging problems at the end of an assignment and made no mention of their difficulty.  When I came across these problems I thought they were not supposed to be as difficult as they were and solved them after much effort.  The next day in class I was the only person who had successfully solved them.  The next time Col. Ptasnik passed out grade sheets he saw my decent but not exemplary grade and gave me a short lecture right on the spot.  “You should have the highest grade in this class,” he challenged me.  I took his challenge, and by the end of the year had the highest grade in the class.
	Throughout the year the complex figure of the man who had motivated me became clearer.  After tests and quizzes he would grade papers with blinding speed and without a reference sheet.  There were different versions of the tests, which made this more remarkable.  He did complex problems on the board with blinding speed.  His teaching methods remained quirky and many times it was better to simply learn from the book and do homework in class than try to understand Col. Ptasnik's strange explanations and examples.  He would repeat strange phrases like “plug and chug.”  One day he started prancing around singing “Peter Cotton-tail” for a reason no one really understood.  By the end of the year, the class had learned to respect him, even if he was a little loopy.
	With junior year came a new math teacher but I continued to get to know Col. Ptasnik.  On junior retreat I learned more about his family and personal history and beliefs as he was my small group leader.  Later in the year I interviewed him about Vietnam.  He said he was only there for 10 months as a tank commander (invalidating all of those wild rumors) and thought the US government was not aggressive enough.  War protests back home made him “f***ing pissed,” he said.  My brief interview with him helped me to better understand that point of view.  At the end of the year when I was buying books for calculus he randomly started explaining “squeeze theorem” to me.  Shortly after that he came out of the bookstore while I was talking with friends and made a strange joke about students peeping over computer monitors in order to see the teacher in class and started laughing.  I was baffled by these crazy antics, but considering what I owed this man, the only thing I could do was laugh.
	Work was over and Xabi was exhausted.  His current project had been taking up 110 percent of his time over the last week, and now that the work week had ended, he just wanted to relax.  He sat down on his chair and switched CMI into passive mode to watch his favorite scenario.  
Instantly, his sense of touch went dead.  He was immersed in a crystal clear scene of an oriental courtyard, a serene garden in the middle of a traditional Japanese house.  Beyond the roof of the house were towering, heavily forested mountains, stretching up into the clouds.  The sweet scent of flowers mingled with the invigorating mountain air.  Around the courtyard men and women dressed in simple black clothes, resembling the uniform of a karate student, stood chatting and socializing with each other.  All were incredibly beautiful Oriental people.  Then two men stepped out into the middle of the courtyard.  Silence fell over the rest of the group as they turned their attention to the two men.   The pair faced each other, bowed, then reached behind their heads and drew slightly curved swords from sheathes attached to their backs.  The man closest to Xabi lunged at his opponent, and the duel began.
	Xabi sometimes participated in these duels, and socialized on almost a daily basis with the now silent observers, but today he had decided to stay invisible.  That was one of the many wonderful things about CMI, short for Cerebral Multimedia Interface.  A person connected to a scenario hosted on the internet could choose to be an invisible observer, or embody themselves in an avatar, or digital “skin.”  When embodied, one could interact with the “physical” world as it was defined by the scenario.  The people in the scenario were, like Xabi, using the internet to connect to the server hosting this scenario.  They were all sitting down somewhere with a little receptor on each temple and the base of their skull, each sending and receiving brain signals.  A little micro-computer, normally attached to a belt or in a pocket, exchanged signals with the receptors and the server, giving the realistic illusion of physical interaction with the digitally constructed environment.  A person could, like Xabi, choose not to interact physically with the environment, and could “turn off” certain senses.
	
Because you could customize your avatar however you wanted, it was more than likely that none of the people connected to the server looked anything like their digital avatars.  
CMI had, in the span of ten years, completely replaced televisions, movie screens, DVD players, digital music players, computers and all forms print media.  So far, only sensory perceptions could be constructed.
Exposition: Description of Xabi fighting robots/droids, we find out it’s just a scenario
Conflict: Humanity and Technology
Rising Action: Description of CMI Xabi at work, fights with boss Controlled person comes and attacks Xabi fights back against evil corporate empire (woo)
Climax: Some kind of final confrontation with bad guy, attacks IRL
Resolution: 

Xabi’s boss wants him to program a way to use all people (nodes) connected to a server to do complicated computations.  Take over their motor capabilities while they are immersed in a scenario and use them for whatever.
Take it to the next level – eliminate the computer middle man, then the micro-computers, then program brains to connect and share info on their own – telepathy
Make one big individual thinking entity out of all human brains – one human brain = one divine neuron
Maybe there is already such a force, result greater than the sum of its parts, we are some single entity called humanity serving some role in the universe?
Song Chi – inventor of CMI, Xabi works for him
Lots of good has lots of bad
Going forward
Technology – forcing humans to become more ethical, moral
I don’t know how the Catholic Church explains old age or disease; I have never been taught anything but the scientific reasons for these things.  Death in the Catholic tradition is just the end of this worldly life and the beginning of eternal life in either heaven or hell, depending on one’s actions.  The notion of everything being impermanent makes a lot of sense to me, and I think it’s a good overarching philosophy in dealing with the material.

Well, if I had been raised as a pampered prince, in order to give it all up I would probably need to feel dissatisfied with my life and realize that material things do not bring me peace and happiness, and that there is more to life than material things.  I think those are the main realizations one must have before being able to give up material comfort.

I think the Middle Way is probably the most pragmatic religious teaching out there.  It is simple and focused and only deals with what an individual can do to attain happiness.  In my previous studies of Buddhism it has been the one thing that really kept me interested and had the most direct impact on my life.  Balance and the avoidance of extremes are now two things for which I strive.  I’m far from being a bodhisattva, but the Middle Way has become the most important religious/philosophical concept in my life.
I think that my basic nature is contented and serene, but that I have a many mental habits and constructions that interfere with that serenity.  I don't think that any of them are really necessary for me to lead my daily life either, as I previously thought.  Clearing away all the cruft and going back to a simple basic operating state brings me back to contentment and happiness.  This belief is very similar to Buddhist teaching, and also fits fairly well into the Taoist philosophy.
In the Rockhurst community, togetherness is very important in that we must rely on everyone else to keep order and provide an optimal learning environment. Organization is essential for the same reasons.  The Rockhurst community is centered on learning, as it is a school.
By this the Buddha meant that we should be disciplined in working towards salvation, as life is transitory and we only have a limited amount of time in this life.  This implies that we should focus inwards and meditate in order to attain enlightment so as to escape the wheel of samsara and enter nirvana upon death.
“The essence of Buddhism is, there is no essence” is, for me, the most difficult part of Buddhist teaching.  The word essence means an inherent unchanging nature of something, so because life and existence consists of constant flux and change, there can be no such essence.  It can be argued that everything has one underlying essence, but whether or not this essence is actually there or has any significance on a smaller scale cannot be known.  While this is relatively simple to explain in words, it is very hard to get away from the notion of permanence.
I have tendencies both ways, as I often try to find general patterns and cycles and then consider them as permanent.  Otherwise I tend to see life as change, as I have experienced a lot of drastic change in my life.  When I think about it though, all patterns have flaws and are big generalizations, and are really not permanent as they are only mental constructs that attempt to simplify the world for the limited human mind.
This doctrine can also be explained as follows: if you slide a puck across a frictionless surface, such as a freshly smoothed ice rink, and that puck directly hits another puck, the first block stops and the second one continues moving at the same speed that the first one hit it with.  The speed and trajectory of the first block is transferred to the second, as a bundle of karmaic energy is transferred between bodies.
I think intention is probably more important because if you unwittingly do something wrong you feel bad about it, which is a more direct and meaningful consequence of that action than any consequence that could be imposed on you.  Thus, going along with the concept of karma, that action has already had an effect on the transgressor.
	On Wednesday, October 26th, 2005 Dr. Syafi'i Anwar spoke at Johnson County Community College.  His topic was “The Future of Islam, Democracy and Authoritarianism in the Muslim World.”  I had difficulty locating the building he was speaking in and once I found that, the room where he was giving his talk.  The directions of other people threw me off and in the end the talk was in the same room that I did Model UN in last year.  By the time I sat down in the auditorium I had missed almost 30 minutes of his presentation.  Dr. Anwar also had a very thick accent that made him difficult to understand.  In addition, there were two deaf people attending the talk and so their translators were standing just off to the side of Dr. Anwar and were highly distracting in combination with Dr. Anwar's accent.  Even with all of these obstacles, Dr. Anwar's presentation was still informative.
	When I entered the auditorium, Dr. Anwar was talking about the mindset of radical Muslim terrorists.  The leaders of organizations such as Al Qaeda use the ignorance of the general populace to their advantage.  They use a literal interpretation of Islam to advance their anti-globalization agenda.  Familiarity with religion combined with the lack of education allows them to paint globalization as a clash of civilizations, with the United States as the Great Satan that is threatening Islam.
	Dr. Anwar then spoke of his own organization, the International Center for slam and Pluralism (ICIP).  The ICIP promotes liberal Islam and tries to foster peace and dialog.  His group is based in Indonesia, which is a Muslim nation with a history of influence by other religions.  He uses this to his benefit in his group's propaganda.  One example he used was a video depicting a traditionally dressed woman in an ancient Buddhist temple that is used to promote interfaith dialog and harmony.
	After his presentation, Dr. Anwar opened the floor to questions.  He confirmed that America makes it more difficult for liberal Muslims to advance their agenda and helps fundamentalists through the Iraq war and the tough language used by Washington.  The point that seemed most reinforced by Q&A was that education and the dissemination of information are necessary in fighting fundamentalism.  He touched on the difficulty of selling these ideas to an under-educated populace and challenges faced by the Indonesian government in this regard.
	The simple fact that people like Dr. Anwar exist and are attempting to fight fundamentalism within their own countries is heartening.  However, the places where this is most needed, like the Middle East, seem to lack similar movements.  Hopefully the ICIP will have some measure of success that will fuel the launch of similar movements in countries like Saudi Arabia.  It seems like regardless of the location of these movements, support from local religious figures is crucial.  Dr. Anwar did not touch on this in the part of his talk I saw, but in the struggle against fundamentalism it seems like a voice from within the religion offering an alternative route in language understandable to the general populace is necessary.  People may be wary of an organization led by a man educated in the West and supported by benefactors outside their country.  This is especially true in countries like Saudi Arabia where the imams have a huge amount of power.
	Another problem faced in promoting liberal ideas in these countries is that they lack a strong middle class that is involved in business.  Business tends to make a more liberal point of view necessary.  If organizations such as the ICIP can use the past trading power of the Muslim nations in their propaganda they could have some success in promoting the growth of business in these countries.
	In his talk, Dr. Anwar demonstrated that he is educated on the problems facing Islam today.  Hopefully he can use his education to effectively fight fundamentalism through the ICIP.
The most notable changes would be a massive forced conformity and an end to secularism.  I dislike laws that are based on religious doctrine as opposed to basic shared values and rational, secular thought.  The Muslims were good about preserving religious freedom in the past, and have for the most part been so in recent times.  The Christians do not have a good track record when it comes to religious freedom, however.
Three symbolic features of the hajj are the white clothing worn by men which signifies the basic equality of all men and ritual purity; the colorful clothing of the women that is typical of their homeland represents the global nature and diversity of Islam; and the circling of the Ka'ba represents how Islam centers around the basic monotheistic assertion of Abraham and recognizes Mecca as the center of the Islamic faith.  I cannot really think of anything directly like the hajj in the Christian tradition.  The Eucharist does establish the basic equality of all, but in a very different way.
The Five Pillars of Islam provide a framework for life by giving people a routine ritual to do that will remind them of their convictions and beliefs and also gives them goals to strive for and look forward to.  In requiring action and good works it helps its adherents to become better people.
Aftermath of the Colonial Period
At the height of European colonial expansion in the 19th century, most of the Islamic world was under colonial rule with the exception of a few regions such as the heart of the Ottoman empire, Persia, Afghanistan, Yemen and certain parts of Arabia. But even these areas were under foreign influence or, in the case of the Ottomans, under constant threat. After the First World War with the breakup of the Ottoman empire, a number of Arab states such as Iraq became independent, others like Jordan were created as a new entity and yet others like Palestine, Syria and Lebanon were either mandated or turned into French colonies. As for Arabia, it was at this time that Saudi Arabia became finally consolidated. As for other parts of the Islamic world, Egypt which had been ruled by the descendents of Muhammad Ali since the 19th century became more independent as a result of the fall of the Ottomans, Turkey was turned into a secular republic by Ataturk, and the Pahlavi dynasty began a new chapter in Persia where its name reverted to its eastern traditional form of Iran. But most of the rest of the Islamic world remained under colonial rule. 
Arab
It was only after the Second World War and the dismemberment of the British, French, Dutch and Spanish empires that the rest of the Islamic world gained its independence. In the Arab world, Syria and Lebanon became independent at the end of the war as did Libya and the shaykdoms around the Gulf and the Arabian Sea by the 1960's. The North African countries of Tunisia, Morocco and Algeria had to fight a difficult and, in the case of Algeria, long and protracted war to gain their freedom which did not come until a decade later for Tunisia and Morocco and two decades later for Algeria. Only Palestine did not become independent but was partitioned in 1948 with the establishment of the state of Israel. 
India
In India Muslims participated in the freedom movement against British rule along with Hindus and when independence finally came in 1947, they were able to create their own homeland, Pakistan, which came into being for the sake of Islam and became the most populated Muslim state although many Muslims remained in India. In 1971, however, the two parts of the state broke up, East Pakistan becoming Bengladesh. 
Far East
Farther east still, the Indonesians finally gained their independence from the Dutch and the Malays theirs from Britain. At first Singapore was part of Malaysia but it separated in 1963 to become an independent state. Small colonies still persisted in the area and continued to seek their independence, the kingdom of Brunei becoming independent as recently as 1984. 
Africa
In Africa also major countries with large or majority Muslim populations such as Nigeria, Senegal and Tanzania began to gain their independence in the 1950's and 1960's with the result that by the end of the decade of the 60's most parts of the Islamic world were formed into independent national states. There were, however, exceptions. The Muslim states in the Soviet Union failed to gain their autonomy or independence. The same holds true for Sinkiang (called Eastern Turkestan by Muslim geographers) while in Eritrea and the southern Philippines Muslim independence movements still continue. 
National States
While the world of Islam has entered into the modern world in the form of national states, continuous attempts are made to create closer cooperation within the Islamic world as a whole and to bring about greater unity. This is seen not only in the meetings of the Muslim heads of state and the establishment of the OIC (Organization of Islamic Countries) with its own secretariat, but also in the creation of institutions dealing with the whole of the Islamic world. Among the most important of these is the Muslim World League (Rabitat al-alam al-Islami ) with its headquarters in Makkah. Saudi Arabia has in fact played a pivotal role in the creation and maintenance of such organizations. 
Revival and Reassertation of Islam
Muslims did not wish to gain only their political independence. They also wished to assert their own religious and cultural identity. From the 18th century onward Muslim reformers appeared upon the scene who sought to reassert the teachings of Islam and to reform society on the basis of Islamic teachings. One of the first among this group was Muhammad ibn 'Abd al-Wahhab, who hailed from the Arabian peninsula and died there in 1792. This reformer was supported by Muhammad ibn al-Sa'ud, the founder of the first Saudi state. With this support Muhammad ibn 'Abd al-Wahhab was able to spread his teachings not only in Arabia but even beyond its borders to other Islamic lands where his reforms continue to wield influence to this day. In the 19th century lslamic assertion took several different forms ranging from the Mahdi movement of the Sudan and the Sanusiyyah in North Africa which fought wars against European colonizers, to educational movements such as that of Aligarh in India aiming to reeducate Muslims. In Egypt which, because of al-Azhar University, remains to this day central to Islamic learning, a number of reformers appear, each addressing some aspect of Islamic thought. Some were concerned more with law, others economics, and yet others the challenges posed by Western civilization with its powerful science and technology. These included Jamal al-Din al-Afghani who hailed originally from Persia but settled in Cairo and who was the great champion of Pan-Islamism, that is the movement to unite the Islamic world politically as well as religiously. His student, Muhammad 'Abduh, who became the rector of al-Azhar. was also very influential in Islamic theology and thought. Also of considerable influence was his Syrian student, Rashid Rida, who held a position closer to that of 'Abd al-Wahhab and stood for the strict application of the Shari'ah. Among the most famous of these thinkers is Muhammad Iqbal, the outstanding poet and philosopher who is considered as the father of Pakistan. 
Reform Organizations
Moreover, as Western influence began to penetrate more deeply into the fiber of Islamic society, organizations gradually grew up whose goal was to reform society in practice along Islamic lines and prevent its secularization. These included the Muslim Brotherhood (Ikhwan al-muslimin) founded in Egypt and with branches in many Muslim countries, and the Jama'at-i Islami of Pakistan founded by the influential Mawlana Mawdudi. These organizations have been usually peaceful and have sought to reestablish an Islamic order through education. During the last two decades, however, as a result of the frustration of many Muslims in the face of pressures coming from a secularized outside world, some have sought to reject the negative aspects of Western thought and culture and to return to an Islamic society based completely on the application of the Shari'ah. Today in every Muslim country there are strong movements to preserve and propagate Islamic teachings. In countries such as Saudi Arabia Islamic Law is already being applied and in fact is the reason for the prosperity, development and stability of the country. In other countries where Islamic Law is not being applied, however, most of the effort of Islamic movements is spent in making possible the full application of the Shari'ah so that the nation can enjoy prosperity along with the fulfillment of the faith of its people. In any case the widespread desire for Muslims to have the religious law of Islam applied and to reassert their religious values and their own identity must not be equated with exceptional violent eruptions which do exist but which are usually treated sensationally and taken out of proportion by the mass media in the West. 
Education and Science in the Islamic World
In seeking to live successfully in the modern world, in independence and according to Islamic principles, Muslim countries have been emphasizing a great deal the significance of the role of education and the importance of mastering Western science and technology. Already in the 19th century, certain Muslim countries such as Egypt, Ottoman Turkey and Persia established institutions of higher learning where the modern sciences and especially medicine were taught. During this century educational institutions at all levels have proliferated throughout the Islamic world. Nearly every science ranging from mathematics to biology as well as various fields of modern technology are taught in these institutions and some notable scientists have been produced by the Islamic world, men and women who have often combined education in these institutions with training in the West. In various parts of the Islamic world there is, however, a sense that educational institutions must be expanded and also have their standards improved to the level of the best institutions in the world in various fields of learning especially science and technology. At the same time there is an awareness that the educational system must be based totally on Islamic principles and the influence of alien cultural and ethical values and norms, to the extent that they are negative, be diminished. To remedy this problem a number of international Islamic educational conferences have been held, the first one in Makkah in 1977, and the foremost thinkers of the Islamic world have been brought together to study and ponder over the question of the relation between Islam and modern science. This is an ongoing process which is at the center of attention in many parts of the Islamic world and which indicates the significance of educational questions in the Islamic world today. 
Conclusion
The Islamic world remains today a vast land stretching from the Atlantic to the Pacific, with an important presence in Europe and America, animated by the teachings of Islam and seeking to assert its own identity. Despite the presence of nationalism and various secular ideologies in their midst, Muslims wish to live in the modern world but without simply imitating blindly the ways followed by the West. The Islamic world wishes to live at peace with the West as well as the East but at the same time not to be dominated by them. It wishes to devote its resources and energies to building a better life for its people on the basis of the teachings of Islam and not to squander its resources in either internal or external conflicts. It seeks finally to create better understanding with the West and to be better understood by the West. The destinies of the Islamic world and the West cannot be totally separated and therefore it is only in understanding each other better that they can serve their own people more successfully and also contribute to a better life for the whole of humanity.
The insight I gained from this article was that Muslims are much like Christians in that the tendency and indeed the majority of believers are active in the political arena and use their religious beliefs as the basis for their political ones.  Thus, religious conservatives in this country are like religious conservatives that rule Muslim countries except for the differences between Christian and Muslim doctrines.  In reality, most religions that believe they have it all figured out are like that.
I think for peace to happen between Christians and Muslims they need to be educated on each others faiths and focus on the similarities.  It would also help if people were not so attached to the idea of their religion as the one and true religion, and would be open to truth from all traditions.
What are your thoughts on the expansionist tendencies of Islam and Christianity?  What role do you think religion should play in politics?

	Nickel and Dimed was quite an eye-opener.  Barbara Ehrenreich's accounts of working at Wal-Mart, a nursing home, and as a waitress and a maid gave me a new perspective into the realities of those jobs.  My reaction to the book was colored by my experiences working at Baskin Robbins in Brookside over the summer, which was motivated by an impulse similar to Ms. Ehrenreich's (minus the writing a book part).  While the conditions were much better there, I saw some of the same trends identified by Ms. Ehrenreich manifested in my own co-workers and had similar feelings.  Baskin Robbins did not drug-test, and if they had decided to implement that policy nearly all of my co-workers would have failed.  Alcohol and drugs were quite popular.  I heard many stories about recent drunken incidents and past drug experiences and it was not uncommon for one of my co-workers to come to work high.  Also, my 20-something co-workers seemed to be in a constant state of housing transition, moving between living with family, other co-workers or friends.  By the end of the summer I held a fairly negative view of customers in general and felt some simplistic, negative stereotypes sneaking into my brain.  Many customers were very condescending and having my self-worth so blatantly trampled upon by complete strangers was an interesting and unpleasant experience.  My experience with management was, however, much more positive than her's, although the owner of the store was an unpleasant character whom I thankfully only interacted with a few times.
	More than anything, my work at Baskin Robbins gave me a good foundation for understanding the experiences and perspectives shared in this book.  I especially found the description of her time with the corporate maid service unsettling.  The inadequate amount of water used and the scrubbing of floors on hands and knees were both fairly disgusting in different ways.  Her description of the antipathy directed toward cleaners was jarring.  I have seen these attitudes manifested in my own relatives and friends and my younger self.  The stark contrast she illuminated between the cleaners and the home owners was the injustice that struck me most.
	After my experiences at Baskin Robbins and reading this book, I can't help but wonder why the working class has to put up with such conditions.  As mentioned in the Evaluation chapter of the book, America is one of the only developed countries without socialized health and child care, and in general does very little to help out those on the lower rungs of the economic ladder.  I think this is largely due to our social norms and attitudes.  The common belief that poor people are just lazy, the American obsession with self-sufficiency and individualism and the myth that all it takes to get ahead is hard work feed this indifference towards the plight of the poor.  Our sub-par education system only exacerbates the situation, by keeping the poor undereducated and failing to correct the cultural misconceptions of the middle and upper classes.  
	I think, however, that as long as man is fundamentally an insecure, dissatisfied and fearful animal there will be inequality and injustice.  However, we can set up institutions to help lessen this.  It seems, though, that eventually all large scale institutions become corrupt or oppressive.  Ms. Ehrenreich in her book does a good job of presenting the complicated problem of poverty in an engaging and challenging way.  Hopefully, her book will open people's eyes and contribute to improving conditions for the poor.

	On the first day of school freshman year, Rockhurst tells the newest members of its family what is expected of them.  By the time they graduate, they are to be Men for Others: committed to doing justice, religious, loving, intellectually competent and open to growth.  Throughout their years at Rockhurst, these students are told at class masses and principal's convocations that they are the leaders of tomorrow.  But these words are used so much that after a while they begin to lose their meaning, and how they all fit together becomes lost in the countless reminders of these ideals.  To be a leader is to serve others and set an example for them.
	The Graduate at Graduation is the set of characteristics that defines a Man for Others, a true Rockhurst leader.  Each aspect of this ideal is an attribute that helps one better serve others.  If a leader is unjust, people are less inclined to listen to and follow him.  Loving others is essential for leadership because otherwise a leader can become manipulative or purely self-serving, in which case people will not allow him to lead them for very long.  Being religious provides humility and a sense of perspective and purpose, giving a leader something to follow for himself.  Being open to growth is essential because if he is not willing to listen to and consider the ideas of others they will be less inclined to follow and the leader will have a harder time developing ideas and solving problems.  Also, a leader needs to be intellectually competent so he may make intelligent decisions and know how to best put ideas into action.
	The experience that taught me most about what it means to be a leader has been  founding and running the Computer Club.  I started this club as a sophomore.  Through persistence and initiative I was able to get the club approved by Mr. Heringer and by October it was up and running.  I had a lot of ideas I wanted to try but I soon realized that unless I could sell them to other people they had little chance of becoming a reality.  For a while I tried to find an major activity that everyone would enjoy, but then I realized that it is impossible to please everyone, and so I chose something that I knew a lot about and thought many people would benefit from.  This activity was building a computer for the auction.
	This project taught me many things about leadership.  First of all, I did a lot of work, especially research, myself.  At the same time I noticed that some people were losing interest because they weren't personally involved and were more of a spectator.  So, to solve both problems, I divided up the work and gave club members tasks in the project, lightening the load for me and giving them a more substantial part in the process.  In the end, this project gave club members experience in building a computer and showed them how the process worked.  Also, we served the school by providing an item for the auction that made around $850.
	Probably the most important thing about leadership that I learned through the process, however, was the power of example.  I noticed that at the times when I was very excited about the project, other people shared my excitement and got involved.  However, when I was not so enthusiastic about the project those involved fed off that and also became less enthusiastic.  As a leader, those you are leading look first and foremost to you as an example.  This realization is probably the most important thing I came away with from that project.
	However, I still have much to learn.  I have many experiences and skills and opinions and the rudimentary leadership experience to share them with others.  Every day I am a leader as everything I do has an effect on the people around me.  However, I have much potential for more active leadership.  The National Honor Society offers many opportunities to represent Rockhurst at various events.  Next year as a senior I will be looked up to by all the underclassmen in each activity I am involved in.  The Computer Club continues to be a great leadership experience.  In all of these areas I hope to reach my leadership potential and surpass it by being a positive influence on others and serving them to the best of my ability.  Life holds many other opportunities for me to be a leader, and Rockhurst will continue to shape me for the experiences ahead.

Jerubbaal
	The Bible is one of the most influential religious texts in history.  Its moral codes are the basis of modern Western law and ethics.  While about 33% of the people in the world follow its teachings, around 77% of people in the US identify themselves as Christian.  The people in this important book, though venerated to a certain degree, are all most definitely humans.  They were, like everyone, flawed and sinful people, but from them we can learn about being faithful to God.  Gideon, also known as Jerubaal, was one of these people.  He was a great military leader and a sinful man, but his commitment to God was the underlying cause of his success.
	Around 1300 BCE the Israelites, led by Moses, escaped from slavery in Egypt.  After this escape, known as the Exodus, they traveled across the Sinai Peninsula and, after much wandering, crossed the Jordan River into Canaan, the area known today as the West Bank.  After some fighting and intermingling with the natives they settled down and established themselves there.  After this the Israelites began to fall into a cycle of sin, disaster, repentance, and deliverance.  They began to abandon God, and this desertion of the Law led to their downfall.  Once the Israelites realized their situation, they repented and called to God for help. Then a leader would arise, hailed as sent by God, and he or she would redeem the Israelites.  The most famous of these heroes, know as judges, are Deborah, Samson, and Gideon.  These three are remembered for their great military feats, but what really bound them together, and could account for their successes on the battlefield, was their strong faith in and devotion to God.
	According to the Bible, God called Gideon as a young boy at a time when the Israelites were being attacked by the Midianites.  When the angel of God called him to save Israel, Gideon felt unworthy, considering his status as the youngest child of the poorest family in the Manasseh tribe.  But God assured him success and as a sign incinerated Gideon’s sacrificial offering.  Then, in a dream, Gideon was instructed to destroy the altar of Baal, a popular Canaanite fertility god.  After he did this, the townspeople were angry and demanded his execution.  But Gideon’s father, the one who had built the altar, countered, saying that if Baal is a god he would kill Gideon himself.  Later, Gideon was given the nickname Jerubbaal, which means, “Let Baal contend against him” or “Baal contends.”  After this, and probably much later on, Jerubbaal gathered a large army to fight the Midianites but was instructed by God to decrease its size.  He then chose 300 of the best soldiers and on a dark night launched a surprise attack on the Midianite camp, with each of his men carrying a torch.  Because in the Midianite army only officers carried torches, with each officer commanding ten men, they were tricked into thinking that the Israelite army was ten times its actual size, leading to a rout of the Midianites.  After this Gideon proclaimed God king of Israel, but then built an ephod, which the people began to worship as an idol.  After Gideon died, his family fell apart thanks to his murderous son.  It is important to note that the Bible emphasizes that Gideon’s victory is the result of God working through him, and that it was because he did not work with or even consult God when building the ephod that his family line failed.
	While the Bible is the only text containing an account of Gideon’s early life, the stories of his military feats are probably based on some fact.  At this time in history the Manasseh clan was fighting with a Bedouin tribe for territory, but also because of basic tribal resentment.  This conflict is probably what the Midianite war in the Bible is based on.  Also, many scholars believe that Jerubbaal and Gideon were two separate people who were fused together into the complicated and often contradictory Bible account of one semi-mythical hero.  Outside of these, however, there are no other historical references to Gideon or Jerubbaal.
	Jerubbaal was a great military leader who came from humble beginnings.  A modern person with a similar story is Colin Powell.  Powell grew up in a poor immigrant neighborhood in New York City and was a mediocre kid; he wasn’t good at any sports and didn’t have any noticeable special talents.  When he got to college, Powell was intrigued by the ROTC program, and joined.  In the army he found something to latch on to, and became dedicated to serving his country.  He served in the Vietnam War and eventually moved up the ranks to become the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, a position which he held during the Gulf War.  He is currently serving as the Secretary of State.  Like Gideon, Powell came from humble beginnings with no thought of becoming a great leader.  However, just as Gideon was dedicated to God, Powell is dedicated to the improvement of the United States and its armed forces.  This dedication led both of them to become successful leaders.
	Throughout the Bible, the most important religious text in the Western world, ordinary and flawed people accomplished great things through their strong faith in God.  One of those people was Jerubbaal, who due to his dedication to God became a great military leader similar to the modern Colin Powell.  Jerubbaal exemplifies one of the Bible’s greatest lessons: through dedication to something greater than yourself, in his case God, you can accomplish anything you put your mind to.
John and the Divinity of Jesus
	The Christian Bible is the most influential religious text in the Western world today.  The basis of Christianity is the Gospels, a group of four books concerning Jesus.  The fourth gospel is the Gospel of John.  It was the last gospel to be written and its intended audience was educated Christians.  In this gospel, the author portrays a divine Jesus, without many of the human elements of the Jesus portrayed in the synoptic gospels.
	“In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.  He was in the beginning with God” (John 1:1-2).  This is the opening of the first part of the Gospel of John, called the Prologue.  Although it is only eighteen verses long, it sets the tone of the gospel with lofty language and vague imagery.  In the prologue, the author of John describes Jesus in mystical terms, calling him the Word and the light, and stressing that he is God in human form.  John the Baptist is introduced in the prologue and is identified as a messenger to spread the good news of the coming of “grace and truth through Jesus” (John 1:17).  While the gospels of Matthew and Luke begin with a description of Jesus’ birth, the author makes no reference to a human birth.  He also uses John the Baptist to introduce the idea that those who accept Jesus can become a child of God, “born not by natural generation nor by human choice nor by man’s decision but of God” (John 1:12-13).  This further separates the gospel’s perspective from the literal, advancing further into the mysterious spiritual realm from which we are then presented the story of Jesus.
	The next major division of John’s gospel is the Book of Signs.  It is in this division that the author begins to talk of the deeds of Jesus directly.  [Use school Bible to explain division]. In the Book of Signs he author of John continues to use vague language to stress Jesus’ divinity.  “The one who comes from above is above all.  He testifies to what he has seen and heard, but no one accepts his testimony.  Whoever does accept his testimony certifies that God is trustworthy.  For the one whom God sent speaks the words of God” (John 3:31-33).  
The fundamental questions it answers are where did this land come from? (Izanami gave birth to the islands of Japan), what happens after death (decay and descent into the underworld as seen with Izanami), how humanity came to be (they were descending from deities), and what gives the ruler the right to rule over the people (he was directly descended from Amaterasu, the sun goddess).
Kami is the essence of all that makes us wonder and brings us closer to the divine.  It is the embodiment of the divinity of nature.
Purification rituals give us a sense of rebirth.  They help us put past troubles and mistakes behind us, allowing us to start anew.  This ability to move on that purification can offer is very important in difficult times.  This notion of beginning anew is comforting and, in a sense, liberates us from past actions we are not proud of.
In the US, Christianity is tied to a pride in the country because of its Christian roots and generally pious populace.  This manifests itself in a lot of religious references in political speeches, and all politicians try to be seen as religious so as to appeal to the general populace.  Also, many popular political movements have religious foundations and backing.  I think that religion will inevitably affect politics but that there should be freedom of religion with great respect between traditions.
	The main problem with the first passage, in which the author shows how the God of the Old Testament took sides with the oppressed, is that it assumes that the reader believes in the Old Testament God.  Operating this under this basic assumption, the author effectively limits his audience to those who accept this assumption.  For those who do not, it is more difficult to glean something useful and meaningful from this article.  It is an interesting comment on how Christianity in the developed world has deviated from its Biblical foundation and suggests probable reasons for such a shift.  Also, this passage gives valuable insight into why Christianity is popular among oppressed peoples.  In giving them a vision of a caring creator who sides with those who have been wronged, the stories of the Bible give them hope that a savior figure similar to Moses will emerge to bring them out of their oppression and/or inspires leaders of the oppressed to take the necessary action to overthrow their overbearing leaders.
	The second article is less assuming and less difficult to gain from for someone with a more secular mindset.  The author quotes Jeremiah 23:13-17 from the Bible and then analyzes it to explain what it means to “know God.”  In exploring this concept he paints a picture of what it is to be a just person that follows logically from the commonly accepted Western idea of justice.  He touches on the fact that those who oppress and wrong those with less power sow the seeds of their own downfall.  The author even goes so far as to say that God is to be found in earthly justice and not in abstractions of the mind.  Towards the end of the article the author brings his Catholic definition of God back to the center of his argument, thus narrowing his audience from the broader one he entertained in the beginning of the article.  Overall it is an interesting article, regardless.
Some paradoxes are the more you know the more you don't know, absence makes the heart grow fonder, and in defining something in words oftentimes you do not understand as well as you did before.
The Tao is the Way of the Universe, the very basic fabric that pervades everything.  It is the uncaused cause.  It can't be grasped intellectually or ever fully understood.  It is beyond all things but is present in and around them at the same time.
To understand the Tao, stop logical thought.  Analogies are helpful in that the point the way but are incredibly limited.  The Tao is a great oneness, but to make a generalization for easy application by our limited minds, we divide the one into two and explain it in such a way that it leads us to think beyond such constructs.  Another analogy for the Tao could be the ocean.  The tide rises and goes back down, it can be cruel and harsh but is also nourishing and sustaining.  In the end you cannot say whether it is good or bad, just that it is there and there are certain things to avoid or seek out depending on what you value.
The yin and yang is a symbol representing the opposites of the world.  These opposites are perfectly balanced and equal and they each contain a bit of the other.  They are actually dependent upon one another, as without one the other would not exist.  In this way the yin and yang serve as a way of showing the basic unity of all things.
I used to be very passionately opposed to the Windows operating system because of the business practices of Microsoft, the company that makes it, and because of the many imperfections and glitches it possesses.  So I briefly got into the Linux operating system, and claimed it to be superior.  Now I realize that both of these have their pros and cons and that neither one is really bad and it depends largely on what you want to do on the computer and how you want to do it.  Its a very subjective thing.  I think that reason for this reaction may have been that new ideas cause us to reevaluate our current state of affairs and in doing that we are more likely to focus on the flaws of the old and see the advantages of the new.  Indeed, whether or not one judges something a superficial distinction in the first place is entirely dependent on their perspective.
Chuang Tzu's approach to death is a very unselfish, optimistic one.  My perspective on death is that we have only speculation on what happens after death, and so this personal loss and uncertainty about what has just happened makes grief and distress natural.  While trying to suppress this grief is unhealthy, it does not help us in any way. So we must make peace with this mysterious part of our condition and move on.  My view of death is that all the earthly emotions and feelings and thoughts are gone and there is only peace, whether that means you enter into eternal bliss or you just rot away with the matter that you were composed of being recycled to feed new life.
Cats most definitely are sage-like in that they are very grounded.  They are very calm and serene unless their survival depends on more extreme action.  Their lives are balanced and they do little that is unnecessary.  Dogs are not quite as sagely as cats because they tend towards excessive emotions and are easily excited and distracted.
You could apply wu-wei to this task by simply not stressing, not beating yourself up about past mistakes, and simply sitting down and writing a paper, not thinking about it too hard or over-analyzing things.  It is kind of like being “in the zone” in western culture.  Block out all other thoughts, and just do it, without serious mental effort.
The stream embodies the yin because its course is completely controlled by gravity and its surrounding environment.  While its course is entirely determined by that which is outside of it, the stream affects its environment as well in that it slowly erodes and changes the landscape to make its path smoother.  It does not try to do this, but does so only through its very basic nature.  Given time this stream can create beautiful canyons and deltas and other natural wonders.  This is the wu-wei, the actionless action, that is such an important characteristic when embracing the yin.
This is just the natural course of nature.  When it becomes unbalanced it balances itself out again.  This process is slow and painful and the end result is never the same as what was there to begin with, but balance is always restored.  The Taoist response would probably be quite similar to mine.
I think that the way our government operates would rate decently but not greatly from Lao Tzu's perspective.  We do enjoy a lot of freedoms but the government is definitely not passive in its rule.  The US government is definitely very aggressive in implementing its policies and caters more to the wealthy than the common person.  Generalizations on whether or not the current administration (or the government in general) is loved or hated are not very accurate.  While the Bush administration is a noticeably more aggressive than the Clinton administration, neither can be said to be Taoistic.  I think that with the United States, because of our culture, it should be anticipated that our government will be yang-focused and I think even if we did have a more passive administration it would be quickly displaced (think Carter).
	The movie “To Live” follows the life of a Chinese family during a turbulent time in Chinese history.  This view of Chinese life provides insights on how Confucian and Taoist thought defined, and continues to define, the Chinese experience.
	Taoist ideas are seen in this movie when Longer is executed for being a capitalist sympathizer after refusing to let the state use some of Fugui's family house that he had acquired through Fugui's gambling habit.  If this had not happened, Fugui would have been in the same situation as Longer and would have probably been killed.  This is very similar to the story of the farmer who lost his horse in Taoism, as it shows how one cannot really say what is good and what is bad.
	The way Fugui reacts to being conscripted is Taoist in that he went with the natural tide of the war and did not let extreme feelings lead him to rash and forceful action which could have gotten him killed.  By the end of his tour he had served on both sides of the conflict and served them equally well.  In every situation, he did what he could to help those around him and came out of the situation well.
	The reaction of the family to their son's death is also fairly Taoist in that at first there is much grieving but ultimately the family moves on.  It was not purely Taoist in that the mother held a grudge for a long time.  She did however, finally move past her grief and help the man responsible for her son's death.
	Confucian family ideals can be seen throughout this movie as well.  The wife is very obedient towards her husband and sticks with him through hard times and his mistakes.  There is also a profound sense of duty in relationships between the family and others, shown by their kind gestures towards both Chunsheng and Mr. Niu when their lives were rough and they had been accused of being capitalist sympathizers.  
	Communism flourished in this atmosphere because it focuses on the good of the community as a whole and encourages obedience and serving one's role in the greater whole of society.  Confucianism has similar ideas of strict social order.  Also, communism was sold to the Chinese people as a government of the people by the people for the people, which appealed to the Taoist sense of passive government that did not exert forceful centralized control.  Also, the image of Chairman Mao meshed with the Confucian notion of a well cultured benevolent leader.
	The movie “To Live” paints a picture of one family's experience during a tumultuous time in China's history.  Throughout this picture, the hues of Taoism and Confucianism can be seen.
I think western society puts way too much emphasis on words.  I've had multiple arguments with someone that ended up in us figuring out that we were both essentially arguing the same stance, just using different words.  Language is a very limited means of communication, and so many people seem to take the words as the argument and don't really understand the concept the words are trying to explain.  I think this would de-polarize our political climate to a degree and at least make it easier for people to work together and communicate effectively.
 Snow on a limb
melting, slowly dripping,
a new day begins.
Since September 11th, the United States government has formed the Department of Homeland Security and enacted a more aggressive foreign policy.  Also, popular support for governmental institutions has risen.
September 11th had a large effect on America because of its dramatic and devastating nature.  It caused Americans to, at least on the surface, re-evaluate their basic ideas of America's place in the world and made counter-terrorism a higher priority.
Terrorism became one of the most important issues in American politics.
The most commonly cited cause for September 11th is a fundamental hatred of American culture and values.
This is characterized as a negative effect of globalization.
Another important idea is that it was a reaction to US policies and actions in the Middle East.
Osama bin Laden has cited the presence of US troops in Saudi Arabia as a major grievance.
US military and political support of Israel is another reason for Arab animosity toward the US.
After September 11th, the Department of Homeland Security was created to address problems within the intelligence community.
Before September 11th , the various intelligence agencies in the US government were only loosely connected.
Inter-agency competition, lack of formal ties and mistrust hindered the sharing of important information.
Substantial incriminating evidence was held against the hijackers before September 11th but was not acted on.
After the attacks the Department of Homeland Security was formed in order to address these problems and unify the agencies responsible for collecting intelligence on potential threats to the US.
This consolidation combined 22 agencies and established a new position, the Office of Homeland Security Advisor.
America's foreign policy has become more overtly aggressive since September 11th.
Initially, US attacked Afghanistan for allegedly supporting Al Qaida, the terrorist group generally held to be responsible for the attacks.
The Iraq war was originally sold as protecting America from a rogue terrorist state.
Shifts in rhetoric from Washington justifying the war and the failure to find weapons of mass destruction has led to a questioning of the Bush administration's motives.
There is debate over how much of a change in foreign policy this actually reflects.
US military intervention in Somalia, Nicaragua, and the Balkans, for example, while not as overt nor on the same scale as Iraq or Afghanistan, was arguably similar in intention and tactics.
After September 11th support for and interest in governmental institutions rose and then evened out again.
The initial strong response from the Bush administration led to record high approval ratings and patriotism.
The Bush administration quickly found a perpetrator and took military action.  This satisfied the American desire for retribution and thus led to Bush's high popularity.
With the Iraq war and the disappearance of the initial fervor incited by 9/11, a sizable amount of dissent has arisen and approval ratings have dropped.
However, patriotism and an internationalist view of politics have stuck around.
How the values and ideas of the Internet’s various creators shaped it as a communication medium.
Baran, Paul. “On Distributed Communications: Summary Overview.” RAND Corporation.
	This is the summary of a series of extensive research papers that initially established the basic theory behind a distributed communications network, now manifest as the Internet.  It is technical and was written prior to any kind of development.  Its purpose is to review the research and come to conclusions on the feasibility of such a system.  The author was an electrical engineer working for the US military.  This information was used to set a foundation for the discussion of the ideas behind the Internet and how those ideas were implemented by its creators.

Berners-Lee, Tim. Weaving the Web. San Francisco.
	
	In this fairly short book, Tim Berners-Lee tells the story of how he invented the World Wide Web and what fueled its creation.  It was written six years after the fact.  The book is aimed at an audience at least somewhat familiar with the internet and World Wide Web.  In the book Berners-Lee explains his vision of the web.  It provides Berners-Lee’s motivation for building the World Wide Web, the technology which catapulted Internet use into the mainstream.  This information was used to take the original ideas of the Internet and show how they facilitated the development of the modern, mainstream internet.

Cerf, Vinton and Bernard Aboba. “How the Internet Came to Be.”	In this informal essay, Vinton Cerf relates his experiences as part of a team at UCLA that helped develop ARPANET, the precursor to the modern Internet.  It is aimed at a fairly technical audience.  The essay’s purpose is to tell the story from the perspective of the influential Mr. Cerf.  It provided insight into the mind of one of the figure heads of the project, helping strengthen the understanding of the mentality of ARPANET’s creators and how they implemented previous ideas.

Kleinrock, Len.  Interview with Charles Petrie.  "LEN KLEINROCK on the Origins of the Internet: ‘This is login’." Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
	This is an interview with one of the key figures in ARPANET’s development.  The interview was conducted by and electrical engineer for a society of engineers, and is fairly technical, focusing on the technology behind ARPANET.  It provides insight into the mind of one of the major technical leaders of the project.  It was used to understand the mindset of the creators and see how the basic ideas of the Internet were originally physically implemented.

Leiner, Barry M. “A Brief History of the Internet.” All About the Internet: History of the Internet. Internet Society. 
	This is a paper about the history of the Internet written by nine of the people involved with its initial development.  It attempts to give a general, if incomplete, overview of the subject and give the authors' views on the origins and evolution of the Internet to a technical audience.  With regard to my research question of how the different people and groups involved in the development of the Internet shaped its fundamental nature, this source gave me the opinions and reflections of the people involved with the initial conception of the Internet and thus the views of those who shaped its nature the most.  I have used this source to get a fundamental insight on why the Internet's underlying structure is the way it is.  I have also incorporated quotes and summaries of various ideas from this paper.

Cailliau, Robert. “A Little History of the World Wide Web.” World Wide Web Consortium.
	This is a short history of the World Wide Web in timeline form.  It not only deals with its development in the early 1990s but also traces the ideas behind the web back to pre-computer times.  It was compiled about three years after the web was invented.  Its purpose is to trace the ideas and actions that contributed to the development of the web from 1945 to 1995.  It is sponsored by the World Wide Web Consortium, which establishes official standards for the web.  This provides important information on the evolution of the central ideas behind the web and its development.

Hafner, Katie and Matthew Lyon. Where Wizards Stay Up Late: The Origins of the Internet. New York.
	This book goes in depth into the initial construction of ARPANET, the precursor to the modern Internet.  It was written well after the fact in 1996 and is aimed at a general audience.  It tries to sort out the complex weave of interaction between various governmental, educational and private organizations that made ARPANET a reality.  This provides important insight on how each group’s ideas about this network shaped it, shaping all Internet-related technology afterward.  It was used for specific information on ARPANET’s various and complex set of influences.

Hardy, Ian. “The Evolution of ARPANET email.”
	This history thesis paper, written by a student at the University of California at Berkeley, details the evolution of email and how it was used during the days of ARPANET.  Written long after the events took place and for a technical audience, this paper discusses in great depth the evolution of this now common form of communication.  It provides information on how the originators of ARPANET used it for communication and on how the idea of email originally evolved.  It was used mainly to see how the original developers used and envisioned email.

Segaller, Stephen. Nerds 2.0.1: a brief history of the Internet. New York: TV Books, L.L.C.
	This book was written about the development and evolution of the Internet after it had become a mainstream technology.  This book is an accompaniment of a PBS documentary series of the same name and is written by the series' producer, and so is aimed at a more general audience.  In showing the human story behind the Internet and highlighting how groups with differing interests and viewpoints shaped it.  The book also provides information on what different groups wanted the Internet to be.  I used this book for specific examples of people leveraging the Internet for their use and how the different groups that used and built on it affected what it is today.

Zakon, Robert. “Hobbes' Internet Timeline.” 1 Jan. Zakon.org.
	This is a very large, inclusive timeline that dates important events in the history of the Internet.  It has been compiled over a long period of time by someone who has been involved with internet technologies since 1988, with the help of many similarly minded people.  This timeline is considered the most accurate and complete one on the subject.  It provides agreed upon dates for events in the history of the internet and a sense of chronology.  It was used mainly to verify dates and for basic information on specific events.
	From 1875 to 1900, the United States was experiencing rapid industrial growth.  As factories became more prevalent and more efficient, many workers found themselves doing repetitive and monotonous jobs for long hours and low pay.  Workers also lost a significant amount of control over their working environment and were easily replaceable.  These factors prompted workers to organize in order to attempt to improve their position.  For the most part, these movements failed to cause any kind of significant lasting change.  The workers failed to cause any significant change because they failed to mobilize a large percentage of the workforce.  Most significantly, the forces labor unions were fighting against were very powerful.
	One reason labor interests failed to make any significant gains during this time period was their inability to unite a large percentage of workers.  In 1900, only four percent of all workers belonged to labor unions.  There were many reasons for this low number of unionized workers.  For one, public opinion was largely against such interests.  Newspapers such as the New York Times portrayed strikers as bold but ignorant.  This imagery, combined with reports of labor strikes turned violent, such as the Homestead strike and the Haymarket riot, led the public to associate labor movements with violent and radical politics.  Another reason was that many unions excluded substantial groups of people, such as women, recent immigrants, blacks or unskilled workers.  Unskilled laborers were the foundation of the industrial work force and those with the worst working conditions, and so effectively organizing them could have helped labor interests immensely.  A large obstacle to organizing unskilled workers was the transitory nature of the work force.  Due to the economic instability of the time and the interchangeable nature of factory workers, workers tended not to stay in one place for very long, making it hard to establish any kind of powerful institutional structure.
	The biggest obstacle to improving the status of workers was the corporations they were fighting against.  These organizations had large amounts of wealth and power.  Government was on the side of the businesses, sending federal troops to break strikes, as seen with the Homestead and Pullman strikes.  Corporations also used tactics such as infiltration, espionage and sabotage, sending in agents to disrupt attempts at organization and decisive action.  On the more mundane side of the coin, corporations, such as the Western Union Telegraph Company, made workers sign contracts forbidding them to be involved with any labor organizations.  Because of the surplus of workers and the relatively unskilled nature of the labor, corporations could afford to fire people for union involvement and had no problems finding new workers to replace those on strike.  With vast amounts of capital and a burgeoning work force at their disposal, the corporations suppressed all efforts to improve the conditions of workers.
What advances were made by labor interests were small and insignificant.  Even though some gains were made in Congress such as the abolition of the Contract Labor Law and state laws governing hours and working conditions, such laws were rarely enforced and largely token gestures to appease supposedly ignorant workers.  From 1875 to 1891, there was a half hour decrease in average daily hours worked and a small net increase in daily wages.  However, the statistics do not account for the rising cost of living.  Also, the increasing efficiency of machines in factories reduced the number of workers needed to do certain jobs, as noted by a machinist in his testimony before the Senate.  A small increase in wages could be due to this process.  Regardless, no relative improvements can be directly attributed to the involvement of labor unions.
Possibly one of the most fundamental reasons for the failure of labor interests in the time period was the inability of the labor movement to work within the existing system to bring about change.  Instead of taking a pragmatic approach and pooling capital and resources, they resorted to ineffective strikes and protests and allowed political ideology to interfere with decisive action.  As the Thomas Nast cartoon “Always Killing the Goose that Lays the Golden Egg” suggests, labor interests often bought into radical alternative economic systems that caused them to throw away the potential power they had for causing change within the system.  Frank Leslie’s “Too Many Cooks Spoil the Broth” cartoon notes how this focus on grand economic theories caused much conflict within the labor movement and delayed or prevented any productive action.
From 1875 to 1900, labor interests failed to effectively unionize or cause any significant improvement to their working conditions.  The immense power of the corporations they were fighting against and their inability to take decisive action due to ideological squabbles ultimately led to the failure of this failure.
	After the “Revolution” of 1800, Thomas Jefferson’s Republicans took control of the federal government from the Federalists.  One of the major differences between these two groups was their interpretation of the Constitution.  The Republicans are generally viewed as strict constructionists, while the Federalists are generally viewed as broad constructionists.  During the presidencies of Jefferson and Madison, from 1801 to 1817, these characterizations were generally true.  However, some exceptions arose when it was politically advantageous for a party to break with its established policies.
	The Republicans were typically strict constructionists.  Jefferson, the founder of the Republican movement, set this precedent right away.  In a letter written to a future member of his cabinet right before his election, Jefferson asserted his belief that the Constitution should be interpreted strictly so that state’s rights are upheld, with the federal government serving mainly as a protector of those rights.  He further explained his state-centric view in a letter to a Presbyterian minister, in which he said that the federal government should have no power over religious institutions and practices, and that if any entity is to have power over them it should be the states.  Jefferson’s efforts to cut back on government spending and the abolishment of internal federal taxes reflected his efforts to put his beliefs into practice during his time in office.  Madison was for the most part a strict constructionist during his presidency as well.  His justification for vetoing an internal improvements bill that provided money for transportation was that the Constitution did not expressly grant that power to the federal government.  However, this was not wholly characteristic of Madison’s presidency.
	When they stood to gain politically, the Republicans often took a broader view of the Constitution.  One example of this is the issue of the Bank of the United States.  The Republican Party had originally formed to oppose the broad constructionist policies of Andrew Hamilton, specifically his push to create a national bank.  Republicans argued that the power to create a national bank was not given in the constitution.  But after the original charter for the Bank expired in 1811, the state banks that replaced it caused economic uncertainty.  These banks issued large numbers of bank notes, which were commonly used like currency but not always backed up with gold or silver.  The value of these bank notes depended largely on the reputation of the bank that issued them.  This economic ambiguity created confusion, making business difficult.  Madison and the Republicans in Congress realized that this economic problem reflected badly on them, as they held the presidency at the time as well as the majority in Congress.  To fix this problem they merely reinstated Hamilton’s bank, only with more capital.  While the Republican Party had essentially just done what would have been unthinkable at its founding, the action stabilized the economy.  However, many Republicans, such as John Randolph, were quite opposed to this change in ideology and condemned it as an adoption of the “unjust” policies of Federalism.
	The Federalists typically interpreted the Constitution broadly and used that interpretation to work for greater federal power and reduced regulation of business.   During the terms of Jefferson and Madison the most influential Federalist was Chief Justice John Marshall.  Throughout his 35 years service Marshall stayed true to the traditional Federalist ideals.  In the case of Marbury v. Madison, Marshall took charge and the Court ruled that Congress has exceeded its authority, asserting the right of the Courts to nullify an act of Congress.  This gave the judges, the federal officials most separated from the states, great power over the part of the federal government in which the states had the most power, the Congress, effectively strengthening the federal government.  The Federalists also used their broad interpretation of the Constitution to advance commercial interests.  The Federalists, because they were based in New England, were strongly opposed to any policies restricting international trade.  Because of this, Jefferson’s embargo, as well as other Republican trade policies leading up to the War of 1812, prompted Federalist protest.  A political cartoon from 1808 portraying the embargo and a large snapping-turtle, taking a bite out of the profits of New England’s merchants illustrated Federalist frustration.  The Hartford Convention of 1815 was the culmination of this frustration.  There the Federalists drew up a plan to amend the Constitution to suit their economic needs, taking a liberal view of its role in American government.
	However, the Federalists also switched constitution views when it was politically convenient.  For example, when the Madison administration proposed a draft for the War of 1812, Daniel Webster argued that the Constitution does not give Congress the right to draft people for the military.  This very narrow interpretation of the Constitution is the exact opposite of the interpretation used to justify their other political propositions. 
	From 1801 to 1817, during the presidencies of Jefferson and Madison, the Republicans generally interpreted the Constitution narrowly while the Federalists generally interpreted it broadly.  However, both groups strayed from their respective interpretations when the interests of their normal voter base were at stake.

	In the Cold War, which lasted from the end of World War II to 1991, the United States and the Soviet Union grappled for international supremacy.  Both of their conflicting ideologies promised a better life to people of the world, who had just endured the devastation of WWII.  In an attempt to spread their ideologies, both attempted to rebuild the societies of Europe.  However, only the United States was successful.  The competition between the two powers forced the US to counter the Soviet Union’s authoritarianism and stay true to democracy and freedom.  These ideals proved to be effective in Europe, leading to the demise of communism and leaving the United States as the only super-power in the world.
	The Soviet Union’s (USSR) attempts at establishing its ideals were unsuccessful.  In the devastation left by WWII, the USSR established single-party communist satellite states.  These states suppressed individual freedoms, controlled industry and crushed all opposing political parties.  While war no longer ravaged the countryside, millions of peasants starved on collectivized farms.  However, in heavy industry there was much social mobility.  Anyone with a good education and work-ethic could become successful as long as they were completely loyal to the state.  In comparison with the West, however, Soviet industry still lagged behind.  While living in the USSR and its satellites was better than war, the people still had a much lower standard of living than their contemporaries in the West.
	The United States, however, took a different approach in dealing with post-war Europe.  To counter the USSR’s approach, the United States did not attempt to govern the countries of Western Europe, pulling all their troops out of Europe save for a sizable force in West Germany in case of Soviet invasion.  The US plan for post-war Europe was called the European Recovery Program, better known as the Marshall Plan.  This plan involved a sizable amount of financial aid to help European industry rebound from the war.  The purpose of this plan was to stabilize the global economy not only in order to help Europe but also to ensure the stability of the US economy and the stability of the world.  If the United States had not been competing with the Soviet Union at the time, it probably would have reverted back to the isolationist policies that had caused its late entry into both the World Wars.  However, the US recognized the threat the USSR posed to world peace and thus itself, and abandoned the old isolationist policies completely.  Embroiled in the Cold War, the US had no other choice.
	With the help of the Marshall Plan, Western Europe recovered from the war while Eastern Europe fell further behind.  To counter the Soviets, the US extended its reach all over the globe.  Once the communist states of Eastern Europe fell apart in the early 1990s, the US’s globalization drive had attained its goal and the US was the undisputed international powerhouse.  Unlike after WWII however, the US could do little to retract its reach, setting it up for the precarious situation that is beginning to arise.
	In the Cold War, the United States stretched its reach all over the globe to counteract the perceived threat of communism.  With measures such as the Marshall Plan, it helped rebuild a war-torn Europe while spreading its influence and dealing serious blows to the communist ideals.  The current situation of the United States is largely a result of the Cold War.
The South never had a chance to win the war because of irreconcilable military, economic and political problems.
While the South had some important military advantages that initially kept it in the war, it had several terminal disadvantages that could not be remedied.
	-southern generals better than northern ones in the east at the beginning of the war
	-south fighting a defensive war on its own territory
	-technologically inferior
	-North had many more men, Grant finally used that advantage
	-South had no serious navy
TS2: The South’s economic problems severely hindered the war effort.
	-lack of industry, supplies
	-instability due to issues with paper currency
	-collecting taxes proved difficult
	-fighting destroyed southern lands and crops
	-cut off from northern industry and markets
TS3: Political factors also helped kill the South’s chances of winning.
	-differences involving states rights vs. centralization in respect to running the war
	-Davis not a decisive leader, tried to micromanage
	-political dissension within the South also hindered the war effort

While the Republican Congress grew increasingly radical on the issue of Reconstruction, the policies of Presidents Lincoln and Johnson focused primarily on reunification.
TS1: Lincoln’s reconstruction policy focused on reuniting the Union as soon as possible.
	-needed only 10% of citizens to declare an oath of loyalty
	-offered general amnesty to whites other than high ranking officials of the Confederacy who would pledge oath
	-attempted to extend voting rights only to blacks who were educated, owned land, and helped the Union, making concessions on the issue of black rights
TS2: Johnson borrowed much of his plan for “Restoration” from the Wade-Davis bill, which was less conciliatory than Lincoln’s plan but still focused on reunification.
	-wanted southerners to declare an oath of loyalty to him in person
	-implied that half of state population needed to swear oath for readmission
	-needed to ratify the 13th amendment
	-repudiation of war debts
TS3: The conservative Congress, growing more hostile towards the South as time went on, opposed the plans of both Lincoln and Johnson and pushed for more radical reforms.
	-black males and whites who did not participate in the rebellion the only eligible voters
	-had to draw up new state constitutions that included black suffrage, ratified 14th amendment
	-after passage of 15th amendment, ratification of it was also required
	In Freakonomics: A Rouge Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything, author and University of Chicago economist Steven D. Levitt, with the help of New York Times Magazine journalist Stephen J. Dubner, examines a variety of unconventional questions using the tools of economics.  He admits in the introduction that the book has no unifying theme or focus.  The book touches on incentives and cheating, the power of information, the validity of conventional wisdom, the reasons for the recent crime drop, and parenting.  However, Mr. Levitt does say that he is attempting to show how economics is an accurate way to represent reality.  In this endeavor he is successful but leaves unanswered questions concerning his methods.  As it is, however, the book is interesting and successfully uses the tools of economics to entertain a mass audience.
	There are a few generalizations that can be made about the subject matter of Freakonomics.  The book is focused on the contemporary United States.  Only in examining an Israeli day-care center and sumo wrestling does the book analyze data from outside of the US.  Also, while much of his subject matter is politically or morally charged, Levitt explicitly states that he is not concerned with either politics or morality.  This is shown most glaringly in the chapter where he attributes much of the recent decrease in the crime rate to the legalization of abortion.  In addition, all of Levitt's questions and topics are examined from a specific worldview which he outlines in the introduction.  This world view basically amounts to cynical empiricism.  He focuses on incentives as the primary motivating factor in human decisions and says that “conventional wisdom is often wrong” (13), preferring the more empirical approach of economics in his quest to understand causality.  
	From the basis of this worldview, Levitt presents interesting questions and situations and then analyzes them using the tools of economics combined with logic grounded in sociology  and draws interesting conclusions, but the data used to draw these conclusions is given sparingly to the reader.  In the chapter on accounting for the drop in crime during the 1990s, Levitt goes through all the reasons that were given by experts or the press and then states how much they contributed according to his methods, but gives no more backing than previous experts did. He merely asserts causality and says he has methods based on hard numbers to back it up.  For those who hold a similar worldview and are therefore prone to trust him, this may be enough.  However, if the controversy surrounding Freakonomics is any indication, this is not enough for many readers and Levitt's conclusions might be more convincing if these methods were fleshed out.
	The writing style of Freakonomics is highly readable and engaging.  Thanks to its journalistic tone the book rarely drags and keeps the reader interested.   Stephen J. Dubner's experience as a journalist shines through here and contributes much to the book's success with a mass audience.  The only point at which the style produces a readability problem is the last chapter on the importance of a child's name.  The large lists of popular baby names break up the flow of ideas and depart from the precedent of leaving out data specifics in what is the last chapter of the book.  
	This might not have been so unnerving if the descriptions of the analysis were not oversimplified throughout the rest of the book.  In the first five chapters, many specifics concerning how certain variables were accounted for in Levitt's analysis are left out, presumably under the assumption that it would be too complicated to explain in a way that the average reader could comprehend.  For the more analytical and skeptical reader this is somewhat frustrating, as the conclusions Levitt comes to are certainly interesting and seem to make sense but the information necessary to make a judgment on the validity of the conclusions isn't there.  This does, however, considerably broaden the potential audience of the book which undoubtedly helped propel Freakonomics onto the New York Times Bestsellers list.
	The various topics he chooses to discuss, however, are quite interesting and lend themselves to interesting examples, of which Levitt takes full advantage.  Using two seemingly unrelated subjects, like the Ku Klux Klan and Real-Estate Agents, he talks about the power of information from two different angles.  With the Ku Klux Klan he shows how simply divulging their silly secrets severely crippled them.  He also compares the results of a real-estate agent selling his or her home to the rest of house sales to show how agents use information to their advantage and how the incentives for them to do just as good of a job selling a customers house are not enticing enough for them to do so.  The increasing ubiquity of the Internet, he argues, is reducing this advantage, as information is more widely available.  Other questions he examines throughout the book are how much parenting methods matter, the various incarnations of cheating in schools and sports, and the economic situation of crack dealers.  The thing that all of these topics have in common is that they're highly interesting to the average American.  
	As economics for a mass audience, this book is highly successful.  The book is a joy to read from beginning to very near the end thanks to its interesting subject matter and novel conclusions.  As a book showing how economics is an accurate way to represent reality, it falls a bit short.  Without understanding the methods he uses, the reader cannot make a sound judgment on the accuracy of his conclusions.  However, Levitt does manage to separate himself from the so-called experts he disdains and keep the reader engaged at the same time, which is quite a laudable achievement.
	The United States of America is the most powerful nation in the world, both militarily and economically.  It currently faces two main threats to its security: terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda and rogue states with weapons of mass destruction such as North Korea.  There are four worldviews prevalent among the US foreign policy elite that address how the government should respond to these threats: isolationism, containment, disengagement, and human rights.  Isolationism is the traditional pre-WWII American worldview that the US should be self-sufficient and not involve itself in foreign affairs.  This worldview has lost nearly all of its support as the United States has evolved into the dominant world power.  Containment is the idea that the US should contain perceived threats to national security using military power.  It was developed in response to the diplomacy failures that preceded World War II.  While containment tends towards military force, disengagement deemphasizes it and focuses instead on multi-lateral action when directly confronting threats.  The debacle in Vietnam gave rise to this worldview.  The most recent worldview to gain prominence among foreign policy elites is the human rights worldview.  It is more ambivalent towards the use of military force and instead advocates a foreign policy based on the clear objective of protecting human rights around the world.  Of these four worldviews, disengagement is the the one on which US foreign policy should be based.  Disengagement is less costly, better for the economy, and does not exacerbate conflicts but allows for effective measures to be taken to end conflicts while protecting American interests.
	The United States must be internationalist to maintain its current level of economic prosperity.  Considering the economic interests of the country, a return to isolationism is entirely impractical.  Such a change would entail a dramatic change in the lifestyle of the American people and international economic devastation.  Barring an unprecedented crisis that causes the American people to completely re-evaluate their values and way of thinking about the world, isolationism is far from the best path for US foreign policy.
	A human rights based worldview is also not the best course for US foreign policy.  To operate on a human rights worldview would require a specific definition of what human rights the United States is willing to protect and by what means.  This would be a difficult and highly controversial process, at best and take attention away from protecting American interests.  Paying attention to human rights is important in protecting American interests, as neglecting them can bring negative consequences.  However, crusading to protect human rights all around the globe has the potential to be highly taxing on the US military and economy and is not practical or necessary for the purposes of national security.  In dealing with countries with sketchy human rights records, the United States should consider its interests first, in the long term as well as the short term, before making decisions.
	The US government needs to first fix its intelligence gathering process if it wants to strengthen national security.  Without solid intelligence, foreign policy decisions will be flawed regardless of the worldview on which they are based.  The US has taken steps in the right direction with the establishment of the Department of Homeland Security and the Director of National Intelligence, but more progress is necessary to effectively identify and understand threats to national security.  The failure to find weapons of mass destruction in Iraq after the US government used their purported existence to justify the war shows that the US intelligence community still has room for improvement.  Until intelligence gathering practices and the advising that is based off of the intelligence is demonstrably improved, the United States should be very cautious about starting military conflicts.
	Containment should also be avoided because it is highly expensive and hurts the US economy.  As of September, 2003, the United States was spending nearly $5 billion per month in Iraq and Afghanistan (Moniz).  This has been driving up the national debt and hurting the dollar, which increases prices domestically.  This constrains the consumer and thus is bad for the economy.
	Starting a military conflict, as promoted by the containment worldview, does not always help solve a problem.  Currently in Iraq, the United States is not making any friends.  Civilian casualties are inevitable in a conflict involving guerrilla warfare and the use of air power.  Every civilian casualty makes it easier for at least a portion of the affected population to buy into the anti-US propaganda used by terrorist groups.  If this does not directly produce more terrorist recruits, it only increases support and sympathy for terrorists.  In addition, any terrorist strikes against the United States can be justified as fighting back against an aggressor.  The war on terrorism cannot be won through military might, because while it may be possible to kill certain terrorist leaders and disrupt terrorist activities, it does not solve the root problem, which is popular animosity towards the United States in Muslim nations.  If there is ever to be a peaceful resolution to the conflict, the nihilistic terrorists from countries whose governments exploit them cannot be relied on to stop fighting.  If the United States wants to stop terrorism, it must address why groups such as Al Qaeda receive a substantial amount of support from the Arab Muslim populace and be prepared to suffer the consequences of past actions.
	Therefore, the United States must take an active but non-violent approach in response to terrorism.  The first step in doing thing is to identify the underlying social issues that terrorists take advantage of in order to gain support.  In the oil-producing countries of the Middle East, elites have used their resources to grow wealthy and suppress local populations.  Western nations are the primary consumers of oil and maintain good relations with these repressive regimes.  Western popular culture has also found its way to the Middle East, disrupting the traditional Arab Muslim culture.   These two factors makes it very easy for terrorists to demonize the West and make terrorism seem less extreme.  Steps like starting social exchange programs, reducing oil dependency, and reducing the perceived coziness between the US and Saudi Arabia, for example, could all be effective in lessening animosity towards the US in the Muslim world.
	Instead of directly confronting possible threats from rogue nations militarily, as was done in Iraq, the United States should use diplomacy and work with the international community to address these concerns.  A current example of this idea in action is the recent talks with North Korea.  While the talks have stalled, the United States, along with other nations in the area such as China and South Korea, have been meeting and discussing terms (Brooke).  The US may have to take a tougher stance, but thus far the strategy has kept North Korea in check and at the bargaining table.  In situations like this, the country should prepare to take military action once all such efforts have unquestionably failed.
	Regardless of the steps taken to protect national security, terrorism is an inevitable consequence of globalization and the United States' role as the dominant power.  Due to the sheer number of people that must be involved in difficult tasks such as intelligence gathering and analysis, even the most efficient and well-constructed system will not be able to stop all terrorist attacks.  Therefore, taking actions that will inevitably create more hostility towards the US is counter-productive, and the United States should pursue a policy based on disengagement.


Henri Bergson’s ideas represent the peak and fall of metaphysical thought in our modern age.  He attempted to explain and define concepts such as intelligence and intuition, evolution and the nature of the self.  While his ideas were immensely popular due to his well-crafted prose, they didn’t stand up well to criticism.  By the 1960s he became a relatively forgotten figure in the history of modern philosophy.
	Henri Bergson was born into a Jewish family in 1859 in Paris, France.  Educated in the top Parisian schools, he was an enthusiastic student, consistently at the top of his class.  He went on to become a teacher, and by 1900 was a regular lecturer at Collège de France.  He gained popularity and fame through his numerous published philosophical works, attracting a large variety of people to his lectures.  His work earned him a Nobel Prize for Literature in 1927.  Through the development of his philosophies, Bergson’s views strayed from Judaism, bringing him closer to Roman Catholicism.  However, in the face of Nazism Bergson refused to abandon his Jewish heritage.
	In his books, Bergson addressed many philosophical points.  His first major thoughts concerned the mind and consciousness.  First, he said that consciousness cannot be explained through static concepts, as the scientific community had just begun implying.  According to Bergson, humans naturally think in terms of space because that is how their minds evolved, to better deal with the physical world.  He points to two forms of cognition, instinct and intellect, as tools for manipulating matter.  Intellect is the seat of self-consciousness, allowing the ability to generalize and deal with the theoretical.  It arose from the indecision of animals in a dilemma and is used to comprehend practical problems and produce devices to solve them.  Intellect is limited in that it puts concepts into rigid, static concepts, similar to mathematical proofs.  Instinct, Bergson explains, uses only the tools which are a permanent part of the human body, such as appendages, and so is limited in that sense.  It is precise and unconscious.  However, any intellectual conception of life is severely limited, he says, as humans, and all existence, are dynamic and constantly changing.  This constant change builds on itself, forming duration.  This, according to Bergson, is the essence of time.  The past lives on in the memory, influencing human actions and ultimately causing people to “go on creating [themselves] endlessly.”  Both intellect and instinct are combined in intuition, which he defines as “instinct that has become disinterested and self-conscious.”  This concept of intuition led Bergson to believe that only through intuition is it possible for humans to understand life.
	Bergson became popular because of his opposition to the mechanistic view of nature.  In his most famous work, Creative Evolution, Bergson advances his idea of the élan vital, or life force, which he says is responsible for the creative evolution of life.  He describes the élan as the essence of life.  Throughout history it has tried to free itself from matter and become self-conscious.  To do this it has moved in various directions, representing the branches in the evolutionary tree, and has rejected some as unsuitable, experimenting with plants, then animals, mammals, apes and then finally man.  According to Bergson it has yet to liberate itself from matter, humanity representing the culmination of all efforts thus far, with the intuition the farthest progress made within humanity.  This accounted nicely for the fossil record and the vast diversity of life and at the same time was very similar to many popular theological notions of his time.
Building on his previous work and drawing from the problems facing the mechanistic view of nature at his time, Bergson used his mystical élan concept to tie his previous points together into a coherent philosophy that, at the time, was a practical and very attractive worldview.  He based his criticism of the mechanistic view of nature on the problems that faced it at his time: how did life arise from inorganic matter?  How did complex organs, such as the eye, arise, as they are made up of a series of parts which are independently useless?  He also criticized scientific time, or his concept of it, which was that of a motion picture, a series of static poses displayed so as to give the illusion of continuity.  However, modern biology has answered these questions using the empirical, mechanistic view, and in light of many recent discoveries, Bergson’s views on biology are easily refuted.  Because much of his philosophy, as well as his popularity, was based on his view of biology, this led to the general decline of his philosophical merit.
In the time between the World Wars, Bergson’s philosophies were extremely popular.  His lectures drew everyone from upper-class women to poor university students.  However, his views didn’t stand up to criticism, and by 1960 his philosophy had lost essentially all of its popularity and credibility.  Apparently, Bergson did not fully understand mathematical continuum, in which not all series of time must be discrete series, which is what he described.  Also, Bergson often used metaphors to describe his ideas.  While his images are vivid, like all metaphors they are not exact, and he did not back them up with any kind of logical explanation.  In fact, most of his concepts were very vague, which, like his metaphors, helped make him popular, but once people got beyond the writing and scrutinized the ideas, they found that the ideas are full of confusing paradoxes.  Certain concepts often have a puzzling duality to them that obviously shouldn’t be there, so a reader must make an educated guess as to what exactly Bergson means.  Even when one does fully comprehend Bergson’s ideas, concepts such as the élan vital have the same issues that come with the idea of a deity or universal spirit.  While it is possible that the élan vital exists, there is no way to conclusively prove whether or not it actually does drive the evolution of life.  Because of this these kinds of philosophies are all on equal ground when it comes to validity.  Also, they do not have the practical worldly application of the empirical worldview.
The scientific basis for Bergson’s theories was also demolished.  In 1953, scientists at the University of Chicago started to answer the first question with an experiment simulating the conditions of earth at the time when life was thought to have arisen.  This experiment yielded amino acids, the building blocks of life.  This caused increased scientific study into the origins of life on earth, further strengthening the mechanistic view of nature.  The new understanding of DNA and RNA that came soon after, as well as newly discovered phenomena such as genetic drift, has increased understanding of the how evolution occurs.  The modern theory of mechanistic evolution, combining genetics, Darwin’s work and advances in bio-chemistry and bio-physics make Bergson’s biology nearly impossible to defend.  The practical applications of these discoveries, found in everyday life through medical technology, such as drugs, and in the news with the recent advances in biological engineering (biotech) effectively destroy Bergson’s biology.
However, his views on the mind apply to our lives from an internal human perspective.  In dealing with the self and other people, humans try to define complex emotions, feelings and other parts of our own psyche using the intellect, putting them into abstract ideas and putting labels and restrictions on them.  This tends to over-simplify these complex parts of the human condition and only exacerbate or create problems.  Humans have evolved intuition, as Bergson defines it, to deal with these cognitive nebulae.  Through understanding the individual human mind it is possible to indirectly understand the self.  Trying to use reason to deal with human identity only limits the definition of the self, causing problems and personal turmoil.
	While some of Bergson’s ideas look somewhat ridiculous in lieu of recent discoveries and philosophies, he did make some fundamental discoveries about the human condition.  With what he had to work with, Bergson was fairly successful in putting together a personal coherent philosophy.  In his own words: “That which counts and endures is the modicum of positive truth that each (philosophy) contributes.  The true statement is of itself unable to displace the erroneous idea, and becomes, without having taken the trouble of refuting anyone, the best of refutations.”  The peak and fall of his philosophies showed that metaphysical philosophy cannot be validated, and that every person has a personal view of the unexplainable.  The discovery that is valuable to all people is an empirical one that can be applied through technology.
Historiography
Historians interpret history through the time-period and culture they are/were alive in and their belief about why certain events happen.  Thus, history is affected largely by the viewpoint and timeframe from which it is written.  People who read these accounts of the past see them largely through the eyes of the person who wrote them.  Because of differences in language, time period and general worldview, interpreting history is a challenge.  Also, while many people live through the same event, normally accounts differ, as each person saw the events unfold from their unique viewpoint.  This can further distort history, making one person’s account less important than all of the other accounts as a whole.  To understand history, one must understand the context in which it was written, as well as how the author(s) viewed the world.
Western history started with the Greeks, who recorded history in a prose-like style, using mainly first-hand accounts as evidence.  They focused mainly on wars and political history. Being a historian at this time required no special training, merely that of a normal learned man.  Greek history was so influential that at first the Romans wrote their history in Greek.  Cato the Elder broke down that barrier by writing the first history in Latin.  Later, Sallust developed a Latin style of historical writing that combined ethical reflections and psychological insight, basing political analysis on human motivation.
After the Roman Empire’s conversion to Christianity, historians began writing from a Christian viewpoint, as opposed to earlier historian’s secular viewpoint.  After the collapse of Rome, when education and literacy were rare, the task of recording history fell to the religious clergy, who recorded what they knew of events in chronicles, without expanding artistically or intellectually.
During the Renaissance, increased study of Greek and Roman histories encouraged a secular and realistic approach to history, separating ecclesiastical and secular events.  The Enlightenment increased the importance of the collection of facts and evidence, which lead to the preservation of the sources of historical knowledge in fields like diplomacy, numismatics, and archaeology.  During this time, the standard for historical writing was set by Voltaire, who wrote with “provocative rationalism,” and Edward Gibbon, who combined respect for research and an Enlightenment style of writing.
In the 19th Century, the ideas of the Enlightenment were advanced by Leopold von Ranke, who insisted on dispassionate objectivity and considered the historical circumstances in which the writer recorded events as key to evaluating historical documents.  Thus, historical research became aligned with scientific research.  By the 20th Century, history had become a professional field.
The World Wars led to a mindset that historical facts cannot fully reconstruct history, and no historian can be a completely neutral recorder of objective reality.  Historians also began looking to the social sciences of sociology, psychology, anthropology, and economics to explain events.
While there are many ideas about why events happen, Daniel J. Boorstin suggests that progress is made through people putting previously unrelated ideas together to create or discover something entirely new.  He essentially says that it is impossible to predict the future, so one must always remain open to change.
A good example of Boorstin’s theory is the recent file-sharing phenomenon.  Before Napster hit the scene in 1999, no one thought of using the internet to swap music files.  Shawn Fanning’s novel program effectively gave anyone with an internet connection all the music they could download, for free.  Now, even two years after Napster’s demise, file-sharing is common place, and record companies are still fighting to protect their products.  Napster, based on a central server that stored information about what each connected user had on their computer, was replaced by peer-to-peer file-sharing clients, which allow users to search a network for a file on another user’s computer, without storing each person’s information on a central server, making the software lawsuit-proof.  This situation will not stay as it is, and it is hard to predict what the outcome will be in the end.  The music companies have started going after individual people, but that does not seem to be working, and the companies are exploring alternatives.   The only thing that can be said completely for certain is that the music business, as well as the rest of the world, will be changed by file-sharing.
To completely understand history, one must also understand the people who recorded that history.  Each historian has a unique worldview, and a way of expressing themselves that is wholly their own.  Without a fundamental understanding of where the information came from, history cannot be fully understood.
Cartoon #37: Army Medical Examiner: “At last a perfect soldier!”
The time period this cartoon refers to is the time period of World War I.
The cartoon refers to World War I and the medical examinations required for new draftees.
The cartoonist's message about this is that the perfect soldier is a brute that cannot think for himself.  This hints the larger point that war does not glorify men but degrades them because of its mindless, brutish nature.
The cartoonist has a negative view towards the subject.  This is evident in the hugely proportioned soldier and the comic look of thankfulness in the army examiner's facial expression and clasped hands.
The cartoon has a sense of legitimacy because it appeals to the common negative view of soldiers as tools of the government.  Its point is a fairly clear one and appeals to a traditional disillusionment of the time and thus has a certain amount of validity. However, I do not think the cartoon is that convincing and probably wouldn't change anyone's mind.
Cartoon #40: The National Gesture
The time period to which this cartoon refers is the period after WWI and before the stock market crash of 1929, commonly referred to as the Roaring 1920s.
The cartoon addresses the morality of the people involved in government at the time.
The cartoonist is saying that there is widespread corruption within the government and that bribes and other shady deals are the way the government operates.
The cartoonist has a negative view on the subject.  This can be seen through the grimacing, sinister faces of the government employees depicted.
The cartoon appeals to people's cynicism about government and is thus convincing.  It does not appeal to any particular scandal, however, which would have made a stronger case for the cartoonist's message.  There is a sense of legitimacy from the serious tone and frightening message sent by the cartoon.
Cartoon #42: A wise economist asks a question
This cartoon refers to the time period of the Great Depression, which lasted from 1929 to the beginning of World War II.
It addresses the Great Depression and more specifically one of its most devastating symptoms, bank failure.
The cartoonist's message, shown by the squirrel being referred to as a “wise economist” is that those running the economy before the Depression did not understand what was happening and had too much faith in the strength of the American economic system, specifically the banks.
The cartoonist has a negative attitude on the subject, as is shown by the comparison of economists to inquisitive squirrels and the image of an honest looking man as the victim.
The cartoonist makes a convincing case because he uses the image of an honest member of the middle class as a victim.  Also, the striking portrayal of a squirrel as a wise economist degrades the economist in the viewer's eyes.  A sense of legitimacy is given to the cartoon by the fact that these bank failures completely undermined the faith of the common person in the those running the economy as banks are supposed to safeguard one's financial future.
	The period of time between 1825 and 1850 was an important turning point in American history.  It saw many changes in the fundamental nature of American life, including a surge in population, largely due to immigration; the rapid industrialization of the north, the rise of mass politics and other changes that had a profound effect on everyday American life.  These rapid changes resulted in ambivalence among the general populace, giving rise to a number of reactionary movements intended to reform society.  Many of these movements espoused reforms that related to the democratic ideals of the Founding Fathers.  While most reform movements sought to advance these democratic ideals, their interpretations of the ideals differed widely.  The two overarching democratic ideals were liberty and equality.  In the original sense of the Constitution, liberty meant freedom from restriction or control by an outside force.  Equality, in the Constitutional sense, meant equality of opportunity.
	The democratic ideal of liberty in its Constitutional sense was espoused by feminism and abolitionism.  There were many women involved in other reform movements, and out of the reaction of these women to the male outcry against their non-traditional actions came the feminist movement.  This movement’s main concepts were that women were equal to men and that they should not be discriminated against because of their sex and have the same rights as men, especially in the realm of politics.  However, the feminist movement did not make much progress after this, as the sentiment among reform-minded people at that time, as is reflected by an 1835 engraving by Patrick Reason, was that slavery was the greater offense to liberty than the lack of women’s rights.  This abolitionist movement fought for an end to slavery, arguing that as human beings, blacks should not be forcefully enslaved and at least have some degree of freedom.  Such figures as William Lloyd Garrison and Frederick Douglass were the most visible leaders of this movement.  In these ways, both feminism and abolitionism championed the ideal of freedom from outside control.
	The rehabilitation and temperance movements, however, took this Constitutional notion of liberty and defined it as freedom from personally controllable mental and physical restrictions, and elevated it over the importance of freedom from external restraints.  In fact, these movements believed that outside restraint was almost necessary for personal freedom.  For example, the rehabilitation movement, as represented by the Society for the Reformation of Juvenile Delinquents in the City of New York, believed that by putting criminals, delinquents and other societal misfits in specialized penitentiaries indoctrinating them with societal values they were freeing them of a negative lifestyle so that they could lead a more purposeful life.  Similarly, the temperance movement viewed alcohol as a disruptor that put unnecessary burdens on men and their families, as is evidenced by the cartoon “The Drunkard’s Progress.”  Therefore, by advocating abstinence from, and in cases legal prohibition of, alcohol, they believed they were freeing them from a destructive vice and a heavy burden.
	Movements such as feminism, revivalism and the effort to reform education expanded the original ideal of equality of opportunity.  At the Seneca Falls Convention in 1848, a declaration was drafted demanding women’s suffrage and an end to social discrimination against women, taking the idea of equality of opportunity and broadening it to the socio-political realm.  With the education reform movement, public school systems were important as they would level the playing field and give all people an equal opportunity to become educated.  Horace Mann, the Secretary of Education in Massachusetts, was fairly successful in this endeavor, and led the way for the rest of the United States.  By the Civil War, the United States had the highest literacy rate in the world.  Revivalism, which was an influential Protestant religious movement, took the idea of equality of opportunity and applied it to salvation.  Breaking from the traditional Calvinistic notion of predestination and salvation through divine grace alone, revivalists, led by Charles Finney, asserted that all people, even those traditionally considered most offensive to God, could achieve salvation through personal awakening and conversion.  This radical idea, extending the possibility of salvation to all, meshes nicely with the theme of equality of opportunity that was also advanced in politics and education. 
	On the other hand, nativism pushed for restrictions on equality.  After the huge increase in immigration in this period, groups of nativists, or people who thought that people born in America were somehow better that those born overseas, began to emerge.  Because the immigrants were largely Catholic and were willing to work for low wages, many in mainstream Protestant America felt threatened.  Irish immigrants, in particular, were singled out as trouble-makers, largely because Protestants believed their growing political influence was giving too much power to the Catholic Church, a sentiment that was reflected by the famous Samuel F.B. Morse.  Eventually, the smaller nativist groups consolidated into the Supreme Order of the Star Spangled Banner, whose members later came to be called “Know-Nothings.”  The Know-Nothings began running for public offices and had great success in 1854, running on the platform of banning Catholics and immigrants from public office, tightening naturalization laws and implementing literacy tests for voting.  Thus, the nativists formed a reform movement that was very blatantly trying to reduce political equality.
	In an age of drastic change, many reform movements worked for what they believed to be the betterment of society.  The democratic ideals of the country’s founders – liberty and equality – served as a major inspiration for many these groups.  However, some movements interpreted these ideals in their own unique way, contributing different perspectives on democratic ideals that have a lasting effect today. 
	The September 11th attack on the United States was a colossal event in American history.  This terrorist operation was unprecedented in it's scale and toll, killing 2,986  people and causing the biggest economic disruption since the Great Depression.  It also revealed some serious flaws in the federal bureaucracy and made terrorism a top concern.  In response to these attacks and the vulnerabilities they revealed, the United States government attempted to centralize the American intelligence community and domestic security.  It also enacted a more aggressive foreign policy that focuses on terrorism and preemption.  In addition, popular support for governmental institutions and public concern with foreign affairs rose considerably.
	On the morning of September 11th, 2001, four planes with full tanks of jet fuel, in preparation for cross country flights, were hijacked by 19 terrorists.  Two of these planes slammed into the World Trade Center towers and one hit the Pentagon.  The last crashed into a field in Pennsylvania thanks to the heroic efforts of the passengers who stormed the cockpit and forced the terrorists to crash the plane 20 minutes from their target in Washington, D.C.  The terrorists were associated with the Al Qaeda terrorist group and came from varying backgrounds in the Arabian peninsula.  Several lived in the United States for a few years prior to the attacks and learned to fly planes while on their student visa.  
	During their time in the US the terrorists were not perfectly secretive and intelligence agencies had several tips as to their intentions.  However, before September 11th, there was no central agency responsible for domestic defense.  This job was distributed across many different agencies.  The lack of centralization greatly hindered the government's ability to prevent the September 11th attacks.  According to the 9/11 Commission Report, the summer of 2001 was full of warnings that Al Qaeda was planning a “spectacular” attack on the US (259).  The vast quantity of warnings did not spur any action.  Crucial connections between these warnings and other intelligence was not made.  Even though they were on the FBI watch list, two of the hijackers were able to enter the country and buy flight tickets.  Agencies reported threats to the President and foreign embassies, but no one was held responsible for preparing potential domestic targets for attack.  This was a result of a fragmented bureaucracy. While warnings about the high possibility of an Al Qaeda attack circulated throughout the bureaucracy, no action was taken to avert possible attacks.  American interests over-seas had dealt with the possibility of terrorist attack previously and had action plans in place that were acted upon, but no such plans existed domestically, and so no action was taken.
	After the governmental failures surrounding September 11th, efforts were made to address the problems that plagued the intelligence community.  The Office of Homeland Security, which was replaced by the Department of Homeland Security and the Director of National Intelligence are efforts to improve America's ability to identify and respond to threats to domestic security.
	Immediately after the attacks, President Bush proposed the establishment of the Office of Homeland Security.  Its mission was to unify the collection of intelligence concerning potential threats to the United States.  Soon after the attacks, Tom Ridge was appointed as the head of the Office.  This White House-based office did not have much real power to coordinate the various bureaucracies and so, after about a year of Congressional wrangling, the Department of Homeland Security was established as a more powerful replacement.  This Department consolidated many agencies from other departments.  However, even in 2005 with the appointment of Michael Chertoff as head of the department,  this department has yet to fully come together into an effective and unified organization (The new tsar).  However, it is still a big step forward from the mess that was the pre-9/11 domestic security program.  Another important recent reform was the establishment of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), who is tasked with delivering the President's daily intelligence briefing and controlling how much money the various intelligence agencies get and directing how that money is spent (A new spymaster- and a powerful one).  This direct monetary control over the intelligence agencies and close presidential contact should give the DNI a substantial amount of power and hopefully bring more direction to America's intelligence gathering.
	America's foreign policy has become more aggressive and focused since September 11th.  Before September 11th, United States foreign policy had not yet been adjusted to the post-Soviet world and had no over-arching focus.  US foreign relations were characterized by specific responses to individual crises, such as the first Gulf War and the operations in Somalia and the Balkans.  All of these were quite different situations and garnered equally unique responses from the US.  While the Gulf War was a response to the invasion of a neighboring country and handled with a full-scale, US-led military assault, US involvement in the Balkans was limited to air strikes.  Both Bush the elder and Clinton generally cooperated with the international community and US allies through the UN and NATO during this post-USSR period.  The Gulf War was a UN sanctioned international effort led by the United States, and US involvement in the Balkans was conducted through NATO.  The only exception was the Clinton administration's cruise missile strikes against terrorist targets in Sudan and Afghanistan in response to the 1998 US embassy bombings in Tanzania and Kenya.  Clinton was aware of the possibility of unconventional terrorist attacks, but this awareness had no effect on his administration's foreign policy.  In the beginning of his term the younger Bush showed no signs of deviating from Clinton's attitude towards this aspect of foreign affairs.
	The September 11th attacks radically altered United States foreign policy.  In direct response to the attacks the US took a much tougher approach than it had previously.  The goal in this case was not only retaliation but aggressive preemption, neutralizing terrorists before they could do any further damage.  Whereas the military response to Al Qaeda's earlier attacks had been so limited that it was accused of being a ploy to distract the public's attention from the Monica Lewinsky scandal, the post-9/11 war on Afghanistan was a full-scale, modern military assault supplemented by a broad coalition of local rebel groups and international allies.  This war indicated a more inclusive idea of the enemy in dealing with terrorism, including those who supported the terrorists.  In this case, the Taliban regime was unseated with the help of local rebels because of their support for Al Qaeda.  In the new War on Terror, as it was dubbed, President Bush proclaimed infamously, “Either you are with us, or you are with the terrorists” (President Declares “Freedom at War with Fear”).
	After a successful operation in Afghanistan, the Bush administration began to espouse this preemptive approach and its broad definition of the enemy as the operating foreign policy.  Under this policy, the Bush administration pushed for war with Iraq under the pretense that it was a rogue terrorist state possessing weapons of mass destruction and thus a grave threat to national security.  White House spokesman Ari Fleisher spoke of a “mountain of evidence” (CNN.com – Bush and Blair hold Iraq talks) concerning Iraqi weapons development and President Bush spoke of Saddam Hussein's animosity towards the US, putting Iraq firmly in the enemy camp as defined earlier and making it a prime candidate for a preemptive war.  The concept of a purely preemptive war was less popular, especially abroad, than the Afghanistan war, which was perceived as more retaliatory in nature.  When no weapons of mass destruction or materials for creating them were found, the Bush administration shifted its rhetoric, taking the supplemental benefit of liberating a people from an oppressive regime that helped the case of the Afghanistan war and applying it to the Iraq war as the major reason for engagement.  This change has to date mostly destroyed any blind support for the Iraq war based on the success of the war in Afghanistan.
	After September 11th, support for government institutions rose.  As shown in Figure 1, the percentage of Americans with a favorable opinion of the federal government more than doubled after September 11th.  By the end of 2002, however, the support had already begun to return to its former levels.
	Thanks to the controversial war in Iraq and the passage of time, however, the initial patriotic fervor incited by 9/11 has withered and a notable amount of dissent has arisen.  President Bush's approval ratings and the number of citizens with internationalist views, which both spiked after 9/11, have also dropped.  According to the Pew Research Center, in 2002 only 30% of Americans thought the US should keep out of world affairs.  Today, however, that number has risen to 42%, barely topping a 1995 high (Opinion Leaders Turn Cautious, Public Looks Homeward).
	The effect of September 11th on the 2004 election was particularly important in the election outcome.  In exit polls, when what issue mattered most to them, 86% of the19% of voters who cited terrorism as their top concern voted for Bush (CNN.com Election 2004: Exit Polls).  In 2000, terrorism was not even an option, and only 12% of voters cited “world affairs” as the issue they believed mattered most.  Out of this 12%, only 54% voted for Bush.  While this cannot account for Bush's victory in 2004, the fears of terrorism incited by the September 11th attacks clearly played a large role. 
	The terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001, had a decidedly massive effect on the United States of America.  However, the widespread public support for the federal government that it garnered seems to have been short-lived, and political pressures in response to the messy situation in Iraq make the preemptive foreign policy of the Bush administration look like it will also not last.  The reforms enacted in response to 9/11 in regards to intelligence gathering and homeland security, however, were much needed and will probably last.  September 11th at least shocked America into the realization that better protection from terrorists was needed, and so the failure of the Department of Homeland Security, for example, would most likely bring an immediate outcry for a more effective approach to defending America.  The elections of 2008 are less certain for the Republicans and will be affected by what happens in Iraq between then and now, but with terrorism and foreign policy now more important issues to the American voter, possible Republican candidates John McCain and Rudy Giuliano both have solid reputations in those areas.  Whatever the future brings politically, September 11th was an indication of the kind of threat America will face in the future.  How well recent reforms address these threats will play a crucial role in the continued prosperity and health of the American republic.II. The Ascendancy of the Aryans (ca 1500-500 B.C.)
The coming of the Aryans was a turning point in ancient Indian history.
The Hindu hymnbook, the Rigveda, provides some info about the Aryans and the native Indians they encountered.
Aryans – warlike people governed by a tribal chief, or raja.
Aryan society composed of warriors, priests, commoners, and slaves.
The Aryans pushed into the jungles of the Ganges Valley.
Aryans failed to conquer all of India.  The land south of the Vindhya Range remained outside their control.
The Social Organization of the Aryans
The Aryans created powerful kingdoms under absolute rulers.
Priests, or Brahmans, were powerful allies of the kings.
Aryan society divided into a caste system comprising four hierarchal strata or varna: Brahman (priests), Kshatriya (warriors and officials), Vaishya (merchants, artisans, landowners), and Shudra (peasants and laborers).
Outside caste system were slaves and “untouchables.”
Women treated better in Aryan society than later Indian society.
Brahmanism
Like the gods of the Persians and Greeks, the gods of the Aryans were anthropomorphic.
Aryan religion centered on ritual sacrifice.
Upanishads – composed between 750-500 B.C., document the philosophical development of Brahmanism.
Ancient Indian cosmology hypothesized endlessly repeating cycles of creation.
The idea that souls transmigrate between bodies in a continual cycle of reincarnation is called samsara.  The combined total good and bad deeds that determined a person’s status in the next life is called karma.  The unchanging, ultimate reality beyond the cycles of rebirth is referred to as Brahman.
d.   These concepts were appealing to many people, especially those of low status because they offered the possibility of advancement.
	The turn-over rate in Congress is currently around 10%.  This means that after any given congressional election only 10% of the members of Congress are new.  This single statistic shows the overwhelming advantage of incumbents in Congressional elections.  This fact, along with recent scandals and the changing role of Congress, has led to a common perception of  Congress as corrupt.  A political consequence of this perception is the call for Congressional term limits.  Proponents claim it would lessen the influence of career politicians and restore a citizen Congress that would be more in touch with the common American and less prone to corruption.  However, unless a complete overhaul of the federal government is enacted, something that is highly unlikely given the current political climate, setting term limits on Congressmen is not a good idea.  The structure and current role of the government make limiting Congressional terms unwise as it indiscriminately kicks out Congressmen after a certain period of time and brings in inexperienced newcomers who lack the knowledge and clout of their predecessors.  Also, whether or not term limits would actually solve the (somewhat vague) problems its proponents say it will is questionable.
	Proponents of term limits argue that the current system is corrupt and undemocratic.  Current incumbents win around 98% of the time and enjoy many advantages in political races, such as name recognition, more monetary donations, and having helped constituents in the past.  Advocates of term limits wish to restore Congress to its former state, where public-minded citizens served one or two terms in Congress as public service and then returned to their former lives.  However, barring a complete restructuring of the federal government, the current system makes this ideal highly impractical.  The federal government has expanded greatly because of programs such as FDR's New Deal and Lyndon Johnson's Great Society, along with the increase in and success of client politics.  Consequently, Congressmen with experience and expertise in a certain area, such as intelligence or the environment, are necessary for this system to operate smoothly, and such expertise is gained by being on committees.  Experience is also needed for a Congressmen to effectively interact with the bureaucracy that enforces the laws.  Bringing in new Congressmen every twelve years, as the most conservative term limit supporters have proposed, would rotate in inexperienced Congressmen who would have to take the time to gain the experience and influence earned by their predecessors, further complicating an already complex process.  This would result in decreased government productivity and thus hurt voters.
	In addition, term limits go against basic democratic ideals.  Enacting them would inevitably prevent voters from re-electing popular, competent representatives.  By the standards of democracy, the fact that incumbents are being re-elected at such a high rate is an indication that people are satisfied with their representatives.  It seems, then, that the people are not dissatisfied with individual Congressmen but with the way the Congress operates as a whole.  The most plausible explanation for this is that with the increase in access to political information and media coverage of politics, the American people are, for the first time, getting an idea of what American politics actually entails on a national level and are finding that they dislike it.  Such sentiments can be seen in the recent campaigns of Ross Perot, who promised to take the politics out of government and make it run more like a business.  This is entirely unrealistic, as politics is an integral part of government (and most businesses, for that matter), especially in a highly diverse democracy such as the United States.  The large number of different interest groups all vying for political power makes political compromises and deals, short term alliances and logrolling absolutely necessary for the legislative branch to accomplish things.  Term limits, by throwing inexperienced representatives into this political fray, would do nothing but complicate and slow down the process.
	From the constituent's point of view, there is no reason to kick out an incumbent if he is doing a good job.  Indeed, doing so can have potentially negative consequences for the constituents.  Experienced Congressmen with long track records have the advantage of seniority, meaning they are more likely to be appointed to committee chairs and be able to push through their bills and amendments.  Thus, having an experienced Congressman is to the advantage of the constituents, as they are more likely to benefit from pork barrel bills and otherwise have legislation favorable to their interests passed.  Term limits would end the career of any Congressman who has served a certain number of years, regardless of how he is viewed by his constituency.  Using a blanket policy like term limits to reduce corruption is heavy-handed and counter-productive.  The main purpose of scandals is to help weed out those representatives who abuse their power.  The temptation to abuse power is a basic human problem and not limited to lawyers or people predisposed towards politics.
	Besides these considerations, there are political and legal difficulties involved in establishing term limits.  In the early 1990's, numerous states passed laws limiting the terms of their Congressmen, but these laws were declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court on the grounds that the Constitution is very explicit on the subject of Congress and does not limit Congressional terms.  Therefore, a constitutional amendment is necessary if term limits are to be imposed.  Because passing a constitutional amendment requires strong support in Congress, this amendment is highly unlikely to pass.  Unless Congress faces immense public pressure, it does not make sense to pass an amendment limiting the political careers of its own members, especially considering the aforementioned arguments against term limits.  In 1995, under such pressure from the American public, the House approved an amendment imposing term limits on Congressmen, but it failed to pass in the Senate.  Interestingly, the 1992 and 1994 elections had already produced a record amount of turn-over, accomplishing what term limits where purported to do.  Since the failure of the 1995 amendment, term limits are no longer a major issue and so it is highly unlikely that such an amendment will be brought up for ratification in the near future.
	In addition to these considerations, if the term limits applied to each house of Congress individually it would still be entirely possible for a person to make a career out of politics.  Unless accompanied by a drastic downsizing of American government, term limits would not solve any of the perceived problems with the Legislative branch and be counter-productive.
Play – The Cripple of Inishmaan
Character – Johnnypateenmike
	Johnnypateenmike is a man in his mid-sixties who lives in Inishmaan with his ninety-year-old mother.  His reason for living is the collection of news and gossip, which he promptly spreads all over the island.  Johnny's world is upset when he doesn't have the full scoop on Billy, the main character, who slips away from his aunts to audition for a movie.  He unsuccessfully tries to get the information from the local doctor, so he moves on to other news.  Johnny is an old but energetic man, slightly stooped from age, with a strong Irish accent.  He is very temperamental, and thinks himself a very important man.  To get news, Johnny will do almost anything.  His mouth is in constant motion, so he is considered very unreliable when it comes to keeping secrets.  His major objective is the collection of news and gossip, and spreading it around to as many people as possible, so as to assert his importance in the community.  His major obstacles are the other characters, who try to keep things secret from him, depriving him of news.  He gets around this by eavesdropping, and even trying to blackmail others.  His major function in the story is to spread rumors, which causes Billy's aunts premature grief.  To other characters he can be a nuisance as well as dependable for the latest news and gossip.  He seems to want to kill his mother, which he tries to accomplish by giving her excessive amounts of alcohol.  He often curses, and sometimes uses tongue-twisting sentence structure.  This gossiping, foul-mouthed Irishman provides comic relief and serves a critical function in the story.

	The famous Sapir-Whorf hypothesis states that the structural properties of a language shape the way its speakers perceive and organize the world and, as a consequence, how they interact with it.  Sapir’s view was more relativistic, while Whorf’s contribution was that of extreme linguistic determinism.  Geoffrey Pullum, in his essay “The great Eskimo vocabulary hoax,” examines the popular piece of trivia that asserts “a bunch” of different Eskimo words for referring to snow.  He first familiarizes the reader with the work of Professor Laura Martin, who has catalogued the many contradictory invocations of this obliquely racist myth.  Her inquiries show that “Whorf’s second-hand misrecollection” only reflects the much more insidious trend of bad scholarship.  Pullum then goes on to show how, even if it were true, this myth is an absurd excuse for linguistically interesting material.  Pullum’s damning portrayal of Whorf as a scholar makes it clear that he finds Whorf’s version of the hypothesis absurd.  Pullum himself defines a more precise question regarding the words Eskimos use to refer to snow and his answer is that it is remarkably close to the number of English words used for the same purpose.  This implies that human perception is uniform to a significant degree and eschews any connection between it and a specific language.  The resilient and ever-changing myth seems to feed on the perceived strangeness of those living at higher latitudes.
	In the summer before my freshman year of high school my interest in computers had reached a new height: I wanted to build my own computer.  I had been playing computer games and exploring the Internet with increasing frequency and during my long surfing sessions I discovered that an individual could physically build a computer.  I was fascinated by this prospect.  Since my earliest years I had been interested in how things work.  The idea that this fascinating machine could be built out of purchased parts was enough to completely capture my mind.  I had to build one myself.
	My parents were somewhat baffled and skeptical but supportive of my newfound obsession.  Bringing me back down to earth, they told me that we already had a computer and if I wanted to build one for myself, I had to pay for it.  This seemed fair and consistent with my independent mindset, so I set out to look for ways to make the necessary money.
	After realizing that I didn't have many options (not enough people trusted a fourteen year old to help them with their computer problems), I found a job as a caddy at a local country club.  Actually securing the job required a month's worth of persistence and numerous phone calls, which were intimidating for a kid who had never had a real job before.  Having appallingly little knowledge of golf and very little training, I hated the job.  The only thing that kept me going back was my goal of building my own computer.
	After a few painful months of working and hours of research, I was ready, monetarily and mentally, to put together my computer.  I bought the carefully selected list of parts via the Internet and waited in gut wrenching anticipation until they arrived.  Having read just about everything on the Internet about the subject, the actual build process went smoothly with only a few temporary setbacks.  After a total of about 4 hours of work I had a happily humming computer on my hands and showed it to my parents with pride.  Through my own drive and effort, I had accomplished my goal.
	Since that summer I have continued to set goals and achieve them.  I have taught myself several computer programming languages, started a computer club at my school, and have built and maintained several websites.  I have also become a more well-rounded and balanced person, becoming more socially active and involved in theater and cross country, while maintaining excellent grades.  In the future I plan to continue to use my entrepreneurial spirit to pursue my goals.  I am still fascinated by how things work and so I am considering studying computer science, engineering, and/or neuroscience in college.  After I earn my degree, I am less certain of my path.  Video game development interests me greatly.  I think that creating a market for independent games and freeing the industry from domination by risk-averse publishers could transform this relatively new medium of entertainment into a true art form.  Whatever my future brings, my enterprising attitude will serve me well.

Reasons for transferring: 
-Whitman is too small and isolated
-Curiosity with psychedelics that began in high school turned into a problem at Whitman and I had to prematurely end my second semester there and ended up in a mental hospital when I got back home; be sure to talk about the stigma surrounding these topics
-My parents want me to be closer to home and someplace where there are facilities that deal with mental health crises close by; that said, the Whitman community responded very well to my crisis
Objectives I hope to achieve:
-I think the brain and psychoactives are really fascinating and would like to study them academically and be involved in research
-would like to explore the intersections of all the different disciplines that deal with the mind, including neuroscience, philosophy, psychology, linguistics, and human cultures and find innovative and fruitful new ways of approaching the study of the human brain

Analysis of “Chancellor’s raise insensitive to crisis” by Alex Doherty

	In this article Doherty argues that, because of budget cuts, KU officials should forgo or take reduced raises.  He makes a secondary point that the University needs to be more considerate of the campus community when dealing with budget issues.
On Sept. 19, The Kansan reported that Chancellor Robert Hemenway would receive a 2.5 percent pay increase for ‘cost of living and inflationary adjustment,’ bringing his total potential compensation to $340,352 per year.
	Here, the use of the word “would” implies that there is some condition that must be fulfilled before the Chancellor will receive his 2.5% pay raise.  The author leaves this point vague.  The word “potential” also introduces vagueness.  The author makes no mention of what conditions must be met for the Chancellor to receive the full amount.
Though the 2.5 percent increase is average, it’s hard to argue that someone already making more than $300,000 is terribly affected by inflation.
	In this next step of the argument, the author starts out with the discounting term “though” in order to introduce a possible criticism.  This is followed by a rebuttal beginning with the rhetorical statement “it’s hard to argue.”  The guarding term “terribly” legitimizes the rhetorical device, though the author could have just as effectively left out the rhetorical device, especially in light of the information that follows – the University provides the chancellor with a free, utilities-paid residence.
In July, Provost Richard Lariviere announced to the Lawrence Journal-World that the University would be asked to cut its budget by 7 percent during two years.  The University could have held off raises for high profile, highly paid executives at their discretion until the specifics on the 2009 budget became clearer.  If the cuts proved to be drastic, University officials could have taken reduced raises or even forgone them as a sign of solidarity with employees who might lose their jobs.
	Again, the first sentence contains “would,” which is a guarding term that introduces uncertainty: who is asking the University to cut its budget, and whether the asking is actually telling, is left unclear.  It seems reasonable to infer from the previous paragraph that the state legislature is responsible for setting the budget and doling out raises, but this is not explicitly stated.  The next sentence assumes that the budget will, in fact, be cut by 7 percent over the course of the next two years.  It also assumes some efficacy on the part of the University.  The author gives no indication as to what administrative entity or entities have efficacy in such financial matters.  This sentence, as well as the next and final sentence of the paragraph, comes closest to being a conclusion.  In both sentences, however, the author uses the implicative guarding term “could” as opposed to the more prescriptive “should.”  Worded as is, this seems to be an appeal to University officials, another vague group.  Presumably, the author is referring to the Chancellor and Provost, two positions which are somewhat mysterious to students.
The University should tread carefully in addressing the obviously complex process of budget cuts and pay raises.
	Here the author exhorts the vague University to “tread carefully,” a common metaphor meaning to proceed with caution.  He also uses the abusive assurance “obviously,” assuming he has made it clear up to this point that the process is indeed complex.
Raising the salaries of highly paid University officials while expecting large budget cuts is insensitive and irresponsible.  We hope the University will realize this and act on future budget issues with careful consideration for students, staff and faculty.
	In these final two sentences, a secondary conclusion is made.  The author uses “is” instead of should, could or would -- directly criticizing the Kansas Board of Regents, University administration, state legislature, or whoever is responsible for this disparity.  The next sentence again assumes the University administration’s efficacy and implies that they have not been acting with consideration for the University community.
	Taking the argument as a whole, there are some troubling problems as well as some bright spots.  First, the title of the article implies an issue more troublesome than the one actually faced.  While seven percent of the University budget is a significant sum of money, the cuts are spread out over two years and won’t drastically affect tuition for another four years, according the KU website.  The article gives no sense, however, of exactly how much money will be cut from the budget nor of how much the Chancellor’s salary will increase, so the reader cannot compare the two to see if the Chancellor’s raise is a significant amount of money in relation to the budget cuts.  There is also no indication of why the budget is being cut in the first place.  KU already has lower tuition than many Midwestern universities and, using the author’s own logic, raising tuition for privileged college students is not a crisis in the usual sense of the word.  When crisis is used seriously it normally refers to something like the genocide in Darfur or the current national financial troubles.  Budget cuts are a potential crisis for those who may lose their jobs, but these staff members are only briefly mentioned, probably don’t read the Kansan, and won’t be much comforted by highly paid University officials skipping a raise as a gesture of solidarity.  Suggesting the money from forgone raises be put into an unemployment fund for laid-off workers, however, would have offered a feasible and potentially worthwhile course of action.
	The article also seems confused as to its audience.  While the article appears on the opinion page of a newspaper written for students, it addresses University officials.  However, much of the article is spent outlining the issue -- with which an efficacious University official is probably already familiar -- indicating the author is also trying to engage the student reader.  If students have any influence over University finances, the author does not give any indication of how to exercise it.  The author seems to be somewhat conscious of his own ignorance, though, as he treads carefully in his argument, making sure to address the possible objection that the 2.5% pay increase is average.  He introduces this objection well before he says anything that might incite argument, however.  He also praises the Kansas Board of Regents for making raises available to highly paid workers, recognizing that in normal circumstances there is nothing wrong with such pay increases.  Reluctance to make direct criticisms and display passion for the issue also suggest an unsure author and probably won’t inspire readers.
	In standard form, the argument breaks down as follows:
	The Chancellor will receive a 2.5% pay raise for cost-of-living and inflationary adjustment
	The Chancellor already makes over $300,000 per year
	Someone who makes over $300,000 per year is not terribly affected by inflation or cost-of-living increases
	The KU budget will decrease by 7% over two years
	Therefore, the Chancellor should forgo, or take a reduced, raise
Looking at this main argument, there are some major suppressed premises.  Firstly, there is the suppressed premise that money for employee salaries is part of the University budget.  This seems reasonable.  Another major suppressed premise is that the Chancellor has the power to forgo or take a reduced raise.  It would seem this is correct, but the process involved could be quite complicated or byzantine.  There is also a secondary argument, but its premises must be inferred from the main.  The sentiment behind it, sympathy for workers with lower standing in the class system over those with higher standing, is typically associated with liberal political views.
Jim Koppen’s Final Paper for PHIL 148:
	In his essay, “Computing Machinery and Intelligence,” Alan Turing beings with the question “Can machines think?”  Considering the time period in which his essay was written, this translates as to a question of whether it is, in principle, possible to produce a thinking machine.  Turing recognizes that the terms “machine” and “think” are vague, and so changes his question: could a computer be programmed to fool a human interrogator into believing that it is human.  He stipulates that the test would be based on textual answers and include another human as a control, but does not indicate whether the interrogator knows that one of the players in the game is a computer.
	Turing spends relatively few paragraphs explaining and supporting his argument before examining objections to his belief that it is, in fact, possible that machines will someday have the ability to think.  He narrows the machines in question to digital computers, which he says “can mimic any discrete state machine.”  Here he seems to assume that the brain is a discrete state machine, but presumably does not explicitly state this, as at the time (and even still now) how the brain works and what exactly constitutes a mind were unclear.  In this vein, Turing defines his test more clearly, saying that the question “can machines think?” is “too meaningless to deserve discussion.”  He states that by the year 2000 storage capacity will have reached the scale of 109 and it will be possible to program a computer to fool the interrogator at least 30% of the time, given a five minute questioning session.  This is the most specific form of the test he posits.  Also, he says that by 2000 educated people will not find outlandish the idea that machines can think.  At this point in the essay he does not give support for these predictions.
	Turing spends the majority of his essay refuting possible objections to his beliefs.  The first objection he considers is based in religion.  Specifically, that only humans have souls and that these souls are what confer the ability to think.  He begins by trying to deductively poke holes in this idea, first noting his personal assumption that man and animals are not so significantly different.  After citing the problem that an exclusive claim to truth is made by many religions, he posits that if God is truly omnipotent he should be able to confer a soul to anything.  It follows then that creating a thinking machine would be no different than creating children in that, if such a machine were to be constructed, it would only be by God’s will.  But he then dismisses such theological arguments, calling them “mere speculation[s]” that “have often been found unsatisfactory in the past.”  Here he uses inductive reasoning, citing the example of Galileo and the Biblically-based objections which were used to counter Copernican theory.
	Next, he considers mathematical objections based on Gödel's incompleteness theorem.  He responds that there is no proof that such limitations do not apply to the human intellect.  Then he considers the sense of superiority people feel over machines and suggests that this feeling may be illusory.  Such feelings apply situationally to a single machines and not to all machines collectively.  This counter-argument obliquely foreshadows the internet and information aggregation a la Google.
	Turing then considers the formidable question of consciousness and its possible use an objection to his test.  He points out that a possible interpretation of this objection is solipsist, or leads to the conclusion that only oneself exists.  Based on this reference to a problematic philosophy, he concludes that if a computer can hold a back-and-forth discussion of an artwork such as a sonnet, it would be hard to argue that the machine is not conscious.  He concedes, however, that consciousness is not well understood.  But he also cautiously dismisses arguments from consciousness, saying that questions of consciousness do not need to be solved before machines can be reasonably said to think.
	The next major objection Turing considers takes the form of a claim that a machine cannot possibly do a certain arbitrary action.  He first points out that these claims are typically not supported by their advocates.  Most use inductive reasoning to arrive at their stance but have limited experience with machines and assume they are all highly specialized devices with little to no aesthetic value.  But then “[t]he works and customs of mankind do not seem very suitable material to which to apply scientific induction.”  Many such arguments he implies are frivolous, like the ability to enjoy a certain dish or have a certain physical sensation.  Computers not being animals, these objections hardly seem relevant.  He then responds to the claim that machines cannot make mistakes.  He reasonably asks whether this is a bad thing, assuming it is true.  But then he says that the computer would be programmed for playing the game so that it would deliberately introduce mistakes in order to confuse the interrogator.  This is indeed a very human thing to do, given the circumstances of such a game.
	Turing finishes his response to arguments from disability with a key point.  Whether or not a computer can self-reflect, a question similar to the argument from consciousness, “can [. . .] only be answered if it can be shown that the machine has some thought with some subject matter.”  The central phrase here is subject matter.  Turing asserts that any representation of meaningful symbols stored by the computer and logically operated upon are “part of the machine’s subject matter at that moment.”  Here Turing makes the assumption that subject matter, in the sense that it is used to describe what someone talks or thinks about at any given moment, is physically represented in the brain.  Accepting this, a computer should be able, like a human mind, to “be its own subject matter,” operating upon and storing information about itself.
	Lady Lovelace’s objection comes from her memoir, which contains detailed information about a an “Analytical Engine [a digital computer planned in the 1830s].”  She asserts that the machine cannot create anything original because it can only do what humans know to instruct it to do.  In response Turing cites Hartree, who says that this objection implies that a machine could be taught to learn through some “conditioned reflex.”  Turing agrees with Hartree.  He then addresses the sense of Lovelace’s objection concerning novelty with “[t]here is nothing new under the sun.”  Next he responds to the idea that computers cannot take people by surprise by saying it is superficially frivolous but on a deeper level comes back to the argument from consciousness.
	Briefly, Turing considers the argument from continuity in the nervous system.  He begins by conceding that the nervous system is not a discrete state machine.  He then says that the ability for a computer to randomly select from a set of values associated with various probabilities allows it to successfully mimic any continuous machine.
	Lastly, he considers the argument from informality of behavior.  Again he begins with a concession, namely that it is not possible to “provide rules of conduct to cover every eventuality.”  He notes that there is some ambiguity in the term “rules of conduct” and so provides a disambiguating definition.  He separates “rules of conduct” from “laws of behavior,” rules being general principles that can be consciously acted upon and laws being natural physical behaviors.  Taking a deterministic turn, he suggests that we do not and perhaps cannot know whether there are complete laws of behavior limiting our actions.
	Thirty two years later, John Searle wrote a book review entitled “The Myth of the Computer” which challenged Turing’s view and the beliefs it had engendered among cognitive scientists.  Searle argues that the Turing test does not prove that a computer thinks.  Because the computer does not understand its answers, he says, it cannot be said to think.  He admits, like Turing, that “[t]he details of how the brain works are immensely complicated and largely unknown.”  But, he claims that “specific biological powers of the brain” are relevant to the mind.  He uses the example of thirst, explaining how such a physical sensation relates to the brain.  He claims that the computer has no physical relation to its thoughts and so they don’t mean anything to it.
	His main argument, however, is a famous analogy.  Called the Chinese room argument, he asks the reader to suppose someone, himself in this case, who doesn’t understand Chinese is put in a room, given an instruction manual in his native language for interpreting and producing Chinese, and passed symbols that form questions he can answer using the book.  Given some practice, he says, this set-up could pass the Turing test.  But the person in the room does not understand Chinese because he does not attach any “meaning, interpretation, or content to any of the symbols.”
	Turing would counter the thirst objection with his answer to the arguments from various disabilities.  Thirst is a physical state in which the brain plays a role but it is not a pure thought, per se.  Searle’s point about understanding can be answered by the objections to the arguments from consciousness.  Searle never says exactly what he means by understanding, asserting it as a vague concept related to semantics.
	But his main argument is the Chinese room argument, and it is slightly more difficult to refute.  He accuses Turing of behaviorism based on this analogy.  But language transcends behavior.  Being aware enough to talk about a physical sensation, and actually having and acting on that physical sensation, are two separate things.  Humans often act on instinct in the same way animals do.  But meaning is based in memory and making connections between those memories.  To an observer, the mind is a black box in the same way that the Chinese room is to a person outside the box who is unaware of how it works.  The difference between a mind, a computer, and a Chinese Room is in the mechanism, which is irrelevant to Turing’s definition of thought.  Being thirsty does not necessitate thought.  Because the human brain is a part of the larger physiological system of the body, it reacts to the state of the system.  A computer can do the same thing.  For example, a chip failing on a computer motherboard or, even better, a server failing in a massive server farm and the system becoming aware of this fact are two separate phenomena.  Thought is demonstrated by expression and deliberate action, not by the mechanism by which the expressive output is produced.
Time and Space, Transcendent
	Kant doesn’t concern himself with objective validity in the TA. He focuses instead on space and time and the question of what they are. They seem to him a priori, but he recognizes that this is a contentious point. 
	He begins his discussions of space and time with what he calls a metaphysical exposition of the conception. Here he explains his views in metaphysical terms, asserting his beliefs without providing evidence rooted in experience. Then he moves to a transcendental exposition, which couches his arguments in terms that may lead to the creation of additional conceptions. After this point, Kant handles the sections differently.
	Kant’s major breakthrough is to separate philosophy and metaphysics. Metaphysics purports to deal with what is true, without qualification. Kant recognized that we cannot come to any solid conclusion in metaphysics. He qualifies his philosophy carefully, indeed making the limits of the truth of what he is saying an integral part of his philosophy as a whole. By limiting his scope, he is able to make stronger, less refutable points.
	So Kant focuses on time and space in human experience. 
	Time and space are transcendentally ideal because there can only be one of each. There are not separate times and spaces for each person. Though each person may perceive differently the pure intuition is the same for everyone, allowing for time and space to be referred to commonly by all intelligibly. Madness of brain chemicals may change these perceptions, the reality of time and space for someone, but ideally they are always the same at base. Time and space still transcend any one individual’s reality.	Time and space are empirically real because they underlie all experience. Right now you are reading this essay and time passes with every word you read. You recognize the paper, the lines and words on the paper, as separate because you perceive external stimuli as being in space. We have empirical evidence for this from our senses.
	But say you take a drug. Say that the effects cause you to stop perceiving space and time as real. You just exist along with everything, in the teeming void. This is far from our everyday reality. If you were to stay in this state it would be safe to call you dead. In the everyday world, you might be taking up space, not moving, or perhaps unconsciously moving around. The world would go on around you. Probably your empirical sensations would be surreal. Motion gives us the strongest sense for time and space, empirically. Time and space would warp and slow down. Still, there would be time and space, transcending whatever weird trip you were on, returning to normal once the drug wore off.
	Time, transcendentally, is uniform. It does not speed up or slow down like it does empirically.
	
	Kant’s main example used to assert synthetic a priori judgements and prove the transcendental ideality of time and space is rooted in geometry. He asks the reader to consider two straight lines, and asks how we know that no enclosed figure can be made from them. Even considering three straight lines, the triangle which they form is not implicit in their lineness. Analytically, three lines and triangle are not contained within the idea of each other, but the triangle follows synthetically, through a horizontal connection, with the three lines. The subject must cogitate the triangle. Unlike a vertical connection that can be made for analytical truths. Geometry is not based in empirical evidence. For even without a pen and paper with which to make concrete such ideas, the ideas exist and make sense a priori in the mind. We have already in our minds the stuff with which we form our reality. Innate faculties.
	
	By saying that space and time are “subjectively” or “empirically real”, but transcendentally “ideal”, Kant means that -
they don’t belong to objects as things in themselves
they are imposed a priori on phenomena by the subject


Kant ventures to prove the transcendental ideality of time and space by -
talking about sensibility, phenomena, 

	Reading Kant’s Transcendental Aesthetic, I could not help but think about neuroscience. How much does cognitive science owe him, I wonder. In talking about aesthetics and perception he is able to synthesize the viewpoints of the Rationalists and Empiricists. Without his elucidation of a priori synthetical judgements, his views on time and space would not make sense.
		In his book, The Sacred and the Profane, Mircea Eliade attempts to give an introduction to the history of religion.  He also tries to tie together the religious experiences of humans from all time periods and cultures.  J.Z. Smith, on the other hand, begins his book To Take Place: Toward Theory in Ritual by pointing out a mistake made by Eliade in the first chapter of his aforementioned book.  He then goes on to poke another significant hole in Eliade’s arguments.  Finally, Smith ties together the two corrected examples from Eliade’s text into a new, more robust potential comparison.
	Eliade begins his discussion of religion with the notion of sacred space.  He says that for religious man, space is not homologous.  Certain areas are sacred and thus part of the ordered cosmos while others are not.  A hierophany, or manifestation of the sacred, establishes a fixed point in the relativity of profane space.  Sacred space is more real and meaningful than the surrounding profane space.  This profane space is seen as a chaotic, separate world that is the source of potentially dangerous unknowns.  From this perspective, all space not part of “our” world must be made livable by creating it anew, or consecrating it.  This consecration is an imitation of the creation of the universe.  By organizing a space, the original work of the gods is repeated.  Often, a pillar, temple, mountain or other similar symbol is used to represent the axis mundi, or center of the world.  This center is highly significant because it is the place where some transcendent realm meets this profane realm and manifests the sacred within it.  In human habitations, this structure is often imitated and the dwelling becomes an imago mundi, or world image.
	The second chapter of Eliade’s book deals with sacred time and myth.  For the religious man, time, like space, is not homologous or continuous.  The time cycles are punctuated with festivals and other sacred occasions that bring the religious back to certain sacred events that happened in the mythical past.  These sacred times are indefinitely recoverable.  In many cultures, the coming of a new year is a rebirth of the entire cosmos.  Rituals associated with this rebirth of the world involve chaotic activity to represent the descent back into the primordial void and then a ritual reenactment of the creation myth.  In this way, humans periodically become contemporary with the gods.  Through these rituals, a transhuman standard is set for human behavior.  That is, to become truly human, one must imitate the gods.  In more developed civilizations, intellectuals tend to detach from the typical cyclical patterns.  The Judeo-Christian tradition detaches the most from this pattern.  In this worldview, God has consecrated historical time through divine action and incarnation.  Thus, history is a theophany and has a definite beginning and end.
	The thrid chapter talks about the sacredness of nature and cosmic religion.  Eliade says that for religious man, nature reveals the different modalities of the sacred.  The sky reveals infinite distance and the transcendence and remoteness of the supreme deity.  Water is the “spring and origin” of life.  Immersion in water represents a return to formlessness while emersion from water represents taking form.  This symbolism is widely ritualized, most notably in the West through Christian baptism.  The earth is the universal mother in all cultures.  Infants are commonly laid on the ground right after birth so that the divine mother may legitimize the birth and confer her protection upon the newborn child.  Human marriage is an imitation of the cosmic heirogamy of heaven and earth.  Humans also find the divine through other natural phenomena such as trees, stones, animals, the moon and the sun.
	Eliade’s final chapter is concerned with the behavior and mental universe of the religious person.  For people in archaic societies, the world has meaning in and of itself and attempts to convey that meaning to humans.  Each part of life and even each part of the human body have cosmic significance in addition to their profane attributes.  Religious humans are open to the world and are thus capable of having an infinite amount of unique religious experiences.  The fundamental religious experience is frequently described as breaking through a roof and flying.  Images of a narrow bridge and gate are common in descriptions of spiritual passage.  In all archaic cultures, access to the spiritual realm is expressed in terms of death of the profane self and rebirth of a spiritual self.  Initiates are often ritually eaten by a monster, buried, or shut into a small, dark, womb-like enclosure.
	At the end of this last chapter, Eliade focuses on modern nonreligious humans.  As he briefly mentions throughout his book, the nonreligious have not yet entirely desacralized their universe.  Modern man still has myths, superstitions, taboos, and other vaguely religious ways of viewing the world.  There are also many instances of camouflaged religious behavior in political and social movements.  Rituals of initiation and rites of passage are still common in degenerated forms.  Eliade then concludes that no person is purely rational and religiousness is strongly tied to the human unconscious.
	J.Z. Smith takes a particular point of Eliade’s book and corrects it.  Smith shows Eliade’s summary of the religious beliefs of the Australian aboriginal Tjilpa to not be a valid example of the religious concept of the “Center.”  Then Smith goes even further and shows that this very notion of the “Center” as a universal religious concept is flawed.  Indeed, the Near-Eastern temples from which the concept was derived represent not a center of the world that connects the earth and heaven but a scar left by the separation of the two realms.  He makes the distinction that Near-Eastern temples reflect a constructivist attitude and Indian temples are seen more as organic.  By this distinction, Indian temples could be compared to the Australian aboriginal belief in ancestral responsibility for the features of the landscape.
	Overall, Eliade’s book was extremely verbose and difficult to read.  As a groundbreaking scholarly work dating back to the late 1950’s, however, this style was probably unavoidable for Eliade.  He summarized himself at random, unintuitive points in his work.  Even with these summaries certain distinctions he seemed to be attempting were unclear and vague.  A more clear and concise writing style would have significantly shortened the book and made the points more easily understandable.
	However hard it was to read, Eliade made some important and fascinating points.  The religious behavior of those who proclaim to not be religious was particularly poignant.  In the West today many political ideologies have their own mythologies and negative conceptions of the Other.  Taking the case of violent extremists, the basic structure of the beliefs of eco-terrorists is similar to that of Islamic terrorist groups.  Even though they may not connect them to the divine, people still use ideals to govern their behavior.  Systems of law and government draw much from religious ideas.  Movies, books, television, video games, even news media perpetuate popular myths.  In Western popular culture, Christian imagery and story structures are so common they are only noticeable to those looking for them.  
	The J.Z. Smith chapter was written in a similar style but the summaries were much more clear and helpful.  This improved style might just be a consequence of the later date at which the book was written.  In any case, Smith was still hard to follow at times, as he seemed to assume a fairly high level of previous study.
	Smith’s study of the Tjilpa mythology was interesting.  In the first chapter of Eliade’s book the description of the Tjilpa’s behavior seems suspicious.  If there was truly a group who believed as Eliade described it does not seem like they would survive for long.  Smith reveals a more complex and legitimate-sounding view of the Tjilpa.
 
In his book, The Sacred and the Profane, Mircea Eliade attempts to give an introduction to the study of the history of religion.  He also tries to tie together the religious experiences of humans from all time periods and cultures.  J.Z. Smith, on the other hand, begins his book To Take Place: Toward Theory in Ritual by pointing out a mistake made by Eliade in the first chapter of his aforementioned book.  He then goes on to poke another significant hole in Eliade’s arguments.  Finally, Smith ties together the two corrected examples from Eliade’s text into a new, more robust comparison.
	Eliade begins his discussion of religion with the notion of sacred space.  He says that for religious man, space is not homologous.  Certain areas are sacred and thus part of the ordered cosmos while others are not.  A hierophany, or manifestation of the sacred, establishes a fixed point in the relativity of profane space.  This sacred space is more real and meaningful than the surrounding profane space.  This profane space is seen as a chaotic, separate world that is the source of potentially dangerous unknowns.  From this perspective, all space not part of “our” world must be made livable by creating it anew, or consecrating it.  This consecration is an imitation of the creation of the universe.  By organizing a space, the original work of the gods is repeated.  Often, a pillar, temple, mountain or other similar symbol is used to represent the axis mundi, or center of the world.  This center is highly significant because it represents the place where some transcendent realm meets this profane realm.  In human habitations, this structure is often imitated and the dwelling becomes an imago mundi, or world image.
	The second chapter of Eliade’s book deals with sacred time and myth.  For the religious man, time, like space, is not homologous or continuous.  The time cycles are punctuated with festivals and other sacred occasions that bring the religious back to certain sacred events that happened in the mythical past.  These sacred times are indefinitely recoverable.  In many cultures, the coming of the New Year is a rebirth of the entire cosmos.  Rituals associated with this rebirth of the world involve chaotic activity to represent the descent back into the primordial void and then a ritual reenactment of the creation myth.  In this way, humans periodically become contemporary with the gods.  Through these rituals, a transhuman standard is set for human behavior.  That is, to become truly human, one must imitate the gods.  In more developed civilizations, intellectuals tend to detach from the cyclical patterns.  The Judeo-Christian tradition detaches the most from this pattern.  God has consecrated historical time in this worldview through divine action and incarnation.  Thus, history is a theophany and has a definite beginning and end.
	The next chapter talks about the sacredness of nature and cosmic religion.  Eliade says that for religious man, nature reveals the different modalities of the sacred.  The sky reveals infinite distance and the transcendence and remoteness of the supreme deity.  Water is the “spring and origin” of life.  Immersion in water represents a return to formlessness while emersion from water represents taking form.  This symbolism is widely ritualized, most notably in the West in Christian baptism.  The earth is the universal mother in all cultures.  
	The concept of scripture is an important one in the study of religion.  In the Judeo-Christian West we have some limiting preconceptions about the nature of scripture.  In common usage the word refers to a book or collection of books that has religious significance.  The influence of the Tanakh and the Christian scriptures has centered conceptions of scripture on text and writing.  However, many of the world’s important traditions utilize text in different ways or do not use text at all.  Therefore, to study these traditions, different approaches are necessary.
In Literary Criticism of the Old Testament, Norman Habel uses the discipline of literary criticism to analyze the Pentateuch.  Literary criticism attempts to tell the story of the creation of a literary work through studying its internal structures and identifying separate authors.  Inconsistencies in the story line and different accounts of the same events are a couple examples of signs in the text of different authors.  In the case of the Old Testament, there are traditionally four different sources held to be responsible for the construction of the text.  There are, however, other equally important methods of analyzing the text.  The most prominent of these are form criticism and tradition criticism.  Tradition criticism attempts to trace the evolution of significant expressions, formulations, oral forms, concepts and other discernable literary units throughout the text.  Form criticism, on the other hand, identifies the various literary and non-literary forms reflected in the text.  A form critic would distinguish between hymns, ritual responses, moral narratives, poetry and prose in order to better understand the text.
C. Mackenzie Brown, in Purana As Scripture: From Sound to Image of the Holy Word in the Hindu Tradition, focuses on the evolution of the conception of sacred texts on the Indian subcontinent.  Unlike in the Judeo-Christian tradition, the written word has been traditionally looked down upon as a vehicle for religious teachings.  Whereas the Abrahamic traditions put the utmost importance on their sacred books, in India writing down the Vedas was regarded as a defilement of sacred sound, sabda.  The sound was seen as an eternal, sacred vibration and the written words as a lifeless image.  They contained only the meaning, artha, of the words, which was often considered less important than sabda.  Some of this antagonism towards the written word remains to this day.  However, over time, the concept of the written word as holy came into the Hindu tradition.  Unlike in the Judeo-Christian tradition, the book is regarded as a divine image of God, a visible manifestation of the divine, similar to an iconic image, and is worshipped as such.
	The Western Apache Native American tribe has a complex and interesting way of structuring meaning.  They have very descriptive names for a large number of distinct landmarks in their environment and moral narratives involving them.  In this way, their landscape acts somewhat like scripture, playing a role similar to that of the Bible in Christianity.  While for the vast majority of Christians the geography of their sacred stories is not physically familiar, the Western Apache’s stories are tied to the very geography of their every day life.  Like the stories of the Bible, Apache narratives take many forms.  There are myths, historical tales, sagas and gossip, as well as other, less important, types.  Historical narratives are framed by the name of the place or places where the events took place.  The stories are as much about the events being described as they are the place where the events are set.  These stories, with their familiar settings, contain graphic moral anecdotes that reinforce societal norms within the community.
	In the African Akan society, symbolic ornaments and garments play a similar role to the place names of the Western Apache.  To understand the symbols, deep knowledge of Akan history and culture is necessary.  The specific meaning of any symbol depends heavily on the context in which it appears.  Unlike the stories of the Western Apache, Akan historical narratives belong to certain groups of people.  Only those to whom a certain story belongs may tell it.  Images of local flora and fauna also have significance based on proverbs and folktales utilizing well-known attributes and habits of these living things to make a point.  The lion, for example, is known as the king of beasts but is easily fooled.  Stories about him are often used to satirize authority figures.  Numbers, gestures and abstract designs also have their own symbolisms in Akan society.
	These abstract designs are most highly developed in the Ashanti kente cloths.  Intricate designs, high quality thread, a variety of colors and flawless execution of the weave set Ashanti kente apart.  The complex patterns are tied to various proverbs and ideas.  In certain cases, the color scheme of a particular cloth is directly related to the proverb it represents.  Other cloths are purely descriptive in nature and hold no higher significance.  Through these cloths, thought processes, beliefs, customs and mores of the Ashanti culture are communicated and reinforced.
	Observing these non-textual structures of meaning that operate similarly to Western scripture, the text-based approach to studying religion predominant in our culture comes into question.  Lawrence Sullivan, attacks this preconception in “Putting an End to the Text as Primary.”  	He notes that in the study of religion it is critically important to be able to step outside the realm of writing and investigate the multitudinous forms of religious expression.  The written word is an absurdly limited means of expression.  One major problem Sullivan notes is that language consists of arbitrary signs that have meaning attached to them.  This places an undue amount of significance on the idea of meaning as a construction.  Indeed, this is especially problematic when dealing with religion, as in nearly all religious traditions meaning is seen as a priori, coming from revelation or insight.  Also, text cannot capture the messy, physical reality of language or much of the imagination involved in the struggle of expression.  Sullivan offers many examples of avenues by which one can approach religious studies, including canoe making, pottery, house construction, musical performance, and astronomy.
	Expanding the notion of scripture beyond text is an enlightening endeavor.  The Western Apache use of landmarks and moral narratives is particularly interesting.  These moral narratives would probably be much more vivid and real for members of the tribes than the Bible stories are for many modern-day urban Christians.  The West African system of structuring meaning is also fascinating.  The sheer volume of symbolic images and how they are displayed brings social, religious and moral ideas physically into social interaction in a way that is hard to fathom for the modern Westerner.  The study of the evolution of the Hebrew Scriptures through analysis of the text brings into question the future of religion.  Are there texts being written in modern times that will one day be somehow combined with past and future writings into something that will act as scripture for a future popular religion?  More generally, how will the way people structure religious meaning change as the human race evolves?  Eliade’s suggestions about the religious nature of secular culture, the proliferation of media in modern times and the diverse examples of religious structures in the articles mentioned in this paper suggest a baffling array of possibilities.

	Vision plays a role in religious experience throughout the world.  Exactly how it fits into each specific tradition, however, differs widely.  Vision’s role in religious practice ranges from the rich and vibrant visual tradition on the Indian subcontinent to the restricted but elaborate visuals of Islam.  In between, the Yoruba-derived Afro-American syncretism and Eastern Orthodox Christianity have their own well-developed visual traditions.
	For Hindus, the sacred is present in the visual world.  Vision plays a central role in religious life.  Worshippers go for the darsan of the devi/deva, or goddess/god.  Darsan means “seeing” or the “auspicious sight” of the divine.  Hindus travel long-distances for the darsan of many different manifestations of the divine.  Images in shrines, famous holy men and grand natural phenomena such as the Himalayas and the Ganges River attract throngs of pilgrims.  In India, it is said that the deity gives darsan while the people viewing the image take darsan.  This means that the devi or deva gives the person a perception of the divine.  The devi or deva and worshipper connect through the eyes.  The eyes are often quite conspicuous on images of deities and ritually the last part of the image that is completed.  Before a new image can be unveiled, ceremonies to initiate the new image are held.  Without these rituals it is believed the gaze of the new image can kill.  For certain festivals, new images are made every year and discarded at the end of the celebrations.  This annual renewal of images emphasizes the transient physical nature of the images and eliminates the tendency towards idolatry.  Hence, the sacred takes a limitless number of forms on the Indian subcontinent.  These forms physically demonstrate the multiplicity and oneness of the divine.  
	Vision also plays an important role in the Yoruba tradition and Santeria, a loose blend of Yoruba and Catholic belief systems.  Santeria is not a dogmatic system of belief but a term to describe the folk religious practices of the descendents of slaves brought over to Cuba.  In order to preserve their religious heritage, the oppressed slaves worshipped their traditional deities through Roman Catholic rituals.  Devotees to African deities use small images and symbols associated with those deities extensively in worship.  In Afro-American religions, the Yoruba riverain goddess Yemoja is often worshipped in the form of the Virgin Mary of Catholic tradition, as it is believed they both represent the same divine qualities of purity, faith and love.  Round fans, crowns and earthenware vessels filled with water are traditional represent Yemoja.  These symbols show the cool, tranquil nature of the goddess.  Round fans are used to cool off, representing the comforting role of Yemoja.  The vessels filled with water remind the devotee of the sacred depths of water in which the riverain goddess is said to reside.  These depths are tranquil but also potentially dangerous.  This destructive side of Yemoja is manifest in her association with witchcraft.  Witchcraft is not demonized in the Yoruba tradition as it is in Christianity.  Rather, it prevents male cultural domination.  Roman Catholic parishes in Central and South America celebrate the feast day of many different manifestations of Mary.  Worshippers gather around an image of Mary and present offerings, fan her, and offer prayers.  These feast days are sometimes held on a day when an apparition of Mary is said to have happened.  Other Yoruba gods are celebrated on the feast days of certain popular saints.  On the Roman Catholic figure’s feast day, worshippers participate in ceremonies held in cathedrals and churches as a way of paying their respects to the orisha associated with the figure.  While many Catholic priests and bishops have a positive view of this peaceful syncretism of religious traditions, there are some hardliners that denounce such practices as excessive adoration of the saints and insufficient adoration of God.  On the other hand, some members of the African community advocate abandoning Catholic religious elements and returning to more traditional religious practices.  Generally, however, people in societies where Yoruba and Catholic traditions have mixed tolerate a wide variety of personal devotions.
	In the Eastern Orthodox tradition, icons are an important part of religious life.  These paintings are kept in churches and personal shrines within homes.  These images act as a doorway to the divine and are not traditionally considered as art.  They are full of religious meaning and have evolved within a rich religious tradition for around 2000 years.  They depict religiously important events in ways that communicate religious ideas and aid in meditation.  An icon depicting Jesus’ baptism, for example, portrays a naked Jesus, reminiscent of Adam, being baptized in a river with prayerful people looking on.  His baptizer, John, is portrayed as a holy man and stands on a slightly higher plane than the others.  He blesses Jesus, who appears on a plane lower than the regular people, taking the sins of humanity into the purifying waters.  The people opposite John are also portrayed with halos, showing how Jesus’ purification and renewal in Baptism represents the purification and renewal of all humanity. 
Icons often portray scenes that are recorded in apocryphal gospels such as the Book of James as well.  One feast associated with such an icon celebrates the birth of the Virgin Mary.  In the story, Anna, Mary’s mother, is barren and she laments her infertility with the earth’s bounty in mind.  This is a reminder of Sarah, the wife of Abraham, who was barren but in her old age was graced with sons who would begin the chosen tribe of Israel.  This parallel reinforces the idea that Jesus’ life reverses the original sin of Adam and redeems humanity.  Silent meditation upon these richly symbolic images allows the viewer to silently connect with the divine.  This nicely complements the physical action of rituals such as the liturgy and the verbal action of prayer in the Orthodox tradition.
	In Islam, anthropomorphic images of the divine are discouraged.  Visual religious aids are therefore highly noniconic in the Islamic tradition.  This religious attitude towards the visible originated in the desire to separate Islam from the iconic traditions that preceded it and as protection against idolatry.  Therefore, Islamic architecture and calligraphy are the most well developed Islamic artistic traditions.  Abstract geometrical and organic patterns decorate the walls and domes of mosques and palaces, representing the transcendent, infinite oneness of Allah.  This style of architecture is known as arabesque.  Calligraphy is another noniconic attempt at visually revealing the nature of the divine.  The words of the Qur’an, which play such a central role in Islam, are stylistically portrayed on the walls of mosques and in copies of the Qur’an.  
	Fitting into this spectrum between the Eastern Orthodox and Islamic traditions is my own experience with Roman Catholicism.  Visual images are not discouraged in this tradition but are uncommon and not emphasized in the United States.  In Europe Catholicism has a much richer visual tradition.  The grand cathedrals of Italy, the mind-boggling collection of beautiful art in the Vatican and a statue commemorating the site of an apparition of Mary in Medjugorje, Bosnia-Herzegovina are all images from which I have personally taken darsan, if I may be so bold as to use that Hindu concept to describe my decidedly non-Hindu religious experiences.  I have also visited various grottos and shrines in both the United States and overseas.  These holy sites seem to be more common in Europe, however, and contain images of Mary, Joseph, and many saints.  Visiting India and observing the shrines and temples there would be fascinating.  The Catholic practice of adoration is another highly visual form of worship, similar to the Eastern Orthodox use of icons.  The bread held to be the body of Christ is taken out of the tabernacle in which it is held and displayed in a special metal container that is often highly elaborate and reminiscent of the sun or a flaming heart.  Worshippers then silently adore the displayed sacramental food.  Also, scenes from the Bible often appear on the vaulted ceilings and in stained glass windows in churches.  In my observation of other Catholics and their attitudes towards these visual religious stimuli I have noted some people who put a large importance on such images and others who reject such images entirely.  The vast majority of people, however, seem to fall somewhere in between.

P.S.

In response to your email,

I am sorry I have been missing so much class lately and have been bad about turning in my papers on time.  Along with the draining and lingering sickness I’ve been fighting lately my sleep schedule has become highly irregular and I have had a lot of trouble getting up in the mornings, even with multiple alarms.  I definitely need to get back into a healthy flow, and I’m sorry that my chaotic personal life has interfered with my active participation in class.  When is a good time to meet?  Tuesday would probably be the best day for me as I don’t have to work that day.  Have a great break!

	The nature of religious experience and ritual action is highly complex.  One of the most popular and fascinating religious rituals, Islam’s hajj pilgrimage, can be effectively used to examine both the individual and social functions of religious ritual.  Various scholars have attempted to explain religious experience and ritual action from a multitude of academic perspectives.  In particular, the ideas of James, Climo, Bell, Turner and Bynum have had an important impact on the study of religious phenomena.
	One of the most striking and controversial parts of the Muslim hajj is the ceremonial stoning of the jamarat, a pillar that represents the devil.  The large phallic symbol combined with the inherent violence involved in this ritual seems to bother many Westerners.  This is understandable considering recent Islamic terrorist attacks.  Nevertheless, William James, in his The Varieties of Religious Experience, explains personal religious action in a way that shows the positive side of this ritual and how it validates its existence.  He approaches religion from the perspective of a pragmatic psychologist.  Rejecting the notion of tying religion to a single emotion, James confronts a somewhat paradoxical idea.  He recognizes what he calls the “good side of war,” that after destruction comes creation and that this is a necessary, if painful, part of life.  Religion’s role in this cycle is to affirm that the happiness associated with creation conquers the misery associated with destruction.  James uses the example of a painting of the Christian figure St. Michael with his foot on Satan’s neck.  The richness and meaningfulness of the painting is significantly increased by the presence of that symbol of all things bad, the devil.  Therefore, the Muslim ritual of the stoning of the devil, on a personal level, symbolizes the fight against decay that all human beings strive to win.  There is an Arabic word for this, jihad, which has become well known in the Western world.  This word not only refers to violent, external struggle but to internal struggle as well.
	The consequences of the external struggle waged by the early Islamic community and its relation to present day practices and political realities are made clear by the ideas of Climo and Cattell.  These two scholars edited a compilation of anthropological writings called Social Memory and History.  In this collection, numerous anthropologists talk about the relationship between memory and society.  During the hajj, the faithful ceremonially circle a large black box called the Ka’bah.  The origin of this object is pre-Islamic, having originally been a place where regionally important idols were kept.  According to Muslim tradition, Ibrahim, the Arabic name for Abraham, originally built the Ka’bah.  Whether or not this is true cannot be proved definitively.  Through conversion and conquest, Islam became the dominant religion in the region, and the significant religious symbols of pre-Islamic times were syncretized.  
	Catherine Bell, on the other hand, attempts to categorize ritual action and characterize ritual-like activity.  Her six categories of ritual action are rites of passage; calendrical and commemorative rites; rites of exchange and communion; rites of affliction; rites of feasting, fasting and festivals and political rituals.  Because of the vast scope of the hajj and its meaningfulness for Islam it fits into many of these categories.  It is a calendrical and commemorative rite, happening in the same month every year and celebrating events that happened in the 7th century.  It is also a rite of feasting, fasting and festival because of the incredibly large number of people involved and the festival of sacrifice that takes place.  It can also be a rite of passage for individuals, who fulfill one of the five pillars of Islam by completing the hajj.  It is also a political ritual in the sense that it brings Muslims from all over the world together and unifies them through the white ritual clothing called ihram and a powerful, meaningful overall religious experience.  The nature of the hajj also fits in well with Bell’s six characteristics of ritual-like activities.  These are formalism, traditionalism, disciplined invariance, rule-governance, sacral symbolism and performance.
	Another important idea in the study of religion, the concept of liminality, was originally developed by Arnold van Gennep and expanded upon on by Victor Turner.  In the liminal stage, the person involved in the ritual is put into an ambiguous state.  All social associations are put on hold in this phase and thus identity is undermined, opening the person to change.  This is symbolized in the hajj by the ihram, which erases all clothing-based associations.  During the pilgrimage, especially during large rituals like the tawaf and wuquf, pilgrims enter into a social structure known as comunitas that characterizes the liminal state.  It is not a hierarchic structure but a bond between all people based on common humanity and a sense of equality.  
	However, Bynum criticizes Turner’s theory of liminality.  Based on her research into European women in the Middle Ages, Bynum says that Turner’s theory does not fully account for the many varieties of religious experience.  Her main examples involve women saints who do not put any emphasis on singular life-changing experiences and thus never entered a fully liminal state.  Instead, these women describe themselves as becoming more fully what they always have been.  Life is not defined so much by social drama but by continuity.  Viewing life as a social drama implies that there is something to lose, which, while true for elites, is not true for people with less material wealth and social power.  Historically, the elites have been males raised by females, who must always undergo a fundamental psychological reversal from wanting to be their mothers to recognizing that they are fathers.  This critique gives two different ways to view the hajj: as a furthering of an existing religiousness or as a dramatic event that irrevocably changes the nature of the pilgrim’s religious feelings.  
	In a sense, every pilgrimage is both a dramatic event and one that amplifies existing feelings.  In redemptive hegemonies there is a dramatic dominance over and rearrangement of recognized phenomena.  At the same time, this rearrangement returns an acceptable order to the world and is thus an agent within continuity, in the sense that for something to be seen as acceptable or valid it must conform to some positive standard.  For example, a Muslim could become more orthodox in his or her beliefs on the hajj and have a dramatic change of heart about how they live their faith.  On the other hand, such a social drama would only serve to further manifest their faith in Islam and thus be part of a continuous process.
	My experience of pilgrimage was a powerful one.   I went to Medjugorje in Bosnia-Herzegovina last summer.  It is a site of Marian apparitions and my large group consisting of extended family was visiting the week of the 25th anniversary of the initial visions of Mary.  Thousands of people flocked to this tiny town in the middle of a region recently torn apart by ethnic conflict.  Being involved in a multi-language mass held outside with people from Italy, Poland, Ireland, Australia, Spain, Portugal and many other countries in attendance was awe-inspiring.  We also climbed a rocky nearby mountain barefoot and followed the Stations of the Cross all the way up to a massive cross that stood on top looking over the town and the surrounding countryside.  In order to resolve some internal conflict that my godmother and grandmother brought out, I went back up the mountain by myself (with my shoes on) but strayed off the path and explored the surrounding countryside.  From the top of a nearby peak I saw a circular grove of trees and decided to check it out.  I got a little scuffed up getting down to it but when I got there found a crumbling stone wall outlining the grove that I saw from above.  The atmosphere of the grove was very surreal and I almost ran right into a massive spider web that was home to a huge black and yellow spider.  I didn’t stay in the grove for very long, walking through at a slow pace admiring the scenery, and headed back up to the peak with the cross on top, going up the side of the mountain opposite where I had previously climbed barefoot with my group.  When I got to the top I prayed a rosary and watched the sunset.  It was a very powerful and personally meaningful experience.  I then went to confession and became once again very conflicted about Catholicism.  My grandmother started crying when I told her I had gone, so I suppose that it was meaningful to her and maybe someday that ritual will be more meaningful to me as well.  Overall the experience touched me deeply and made me feel much more connected to my family and my religious roots.  While there was definitely social and internal drama involved, it was also a meaningful continuation of my relationship with the faith I was born into.

	Evolution changed my life. I went to Catholic schools growing up, but freshman year of high school I was in Honors Biology. The first topic we studied in class was evolution. The long timespans involved in evolution, the simplicity and intuitiveness of natural selection, the connection with reproduction and the messiness of life (mutation, drift) that had become apparent to my young self, all tied together into the concept of evolution. I came into a time of severe critical thinking and reevaluation. I began to think about life as an ever-changing process with an ancient history and a mysterious future -- something fluid based in the very laws of nature that could arise anywhere conditions were right. Some of my earliest memories involve books about dinosaurs and National Geographic documentaries about the African savannah, so I must have been well primed for evolutionary theory.
	H.G. Wells brings to sober consideration the potential nightmare of a new dominant species. I am reminded of Phase IV, a sci-fi flick in which ants evolve super-intelligence and biochemical magic in the deserts of the American West. The two researchers and their unwitting assistant find themselves outmatched in their isolation, but realize that the ants will have no problem dealing with larger population centers. Phase IV also relates to the creatures dreamt up for “Children of Time.” Humans are portrayed in evolutionary stasis, weathering geological and environmental change and domesticating huge insects and reptiles.	“Twilight” involves similarly long timespans but some changes to the phenotype of humanity. Changes to language, technology, perhaps even changes in head size and average height are all foreseeable and predictable. Campbell includes humanity’s penchant for wiping out other species and the possibility of adaptation to built environment. He didn’t say, but I’d bet Ares didn’t have a pinky toe. The Borg route, in the words of the Scientific American article, isn’t explored, but rather humans evolve among perfect clockwork machinery, losing curiosity because all their needs are taken care of. With all other species, except pets, wiped off the face of the earth and no aliens to fight with, humanity becomes lonely and bored. Ares leaves the last light of humanity by telling a robot to build another robot with curiosity.
	“Nobody Bothers Gus” had no clear relation to evolution until later in the story but has a similar tinge of loneliness. The mail clerk’s attitude towards Gus told me that Gus was an alien somehow. The baseball player that Gus identifies with reminded me of Jackie Robinson. Genetic differences, no matter how minor, can isolate people and determine their social milieu. 
	“Blood Dauber” was the most contemporary and readable of the stories. Character development was emphasized which allowed for more involvement with the story and the science fiction elements. The blood daubers were a fascinating experiment for Bell to carry out and the reader to observe. We see how genomes can produce phenomes for many environments. But the story has a melancholy note: once development slows and degradation begins, we’re stuck with our genes and the resulting phenotype. Cole’s story seemed grimly deterministic. “Outside the thin walls, the world licked itself and made hunting noises.” Evolution isn’t nice.
	Biotech brings out fear of change, often in the form of religious resistance. Future medicine promises extended life spans, through organ transplants and genetic engineering. Genetically modified food has been around for a while, but continues to meet resistance. Stem cell research stands similarly. Cloning and mutation are vectors through which society may be forced to change as well, though mutation is farther out of human control.
	“New Blood” began the week’s reading as a boilerplate laying out of major themes. The story explores life-span extension through medical science and the related ethics. We see wealth’s role in introducing body hacks to society. Weaver and Camden are both wealthy, but differ in their effect on those around them and how they intend to use the newfound medical technology.
	Weaver and Camden are two shades of stereotypical capitalist. Camden has more depth and humanity. The differing mechanisms of immortality shed light on their characterizations. Weaver would be a vampiric blood addict but Camden goes a more normative route, improving life for his daughter. Leisha becomes sympathetic and super-human through Kress’ focus on her journey through life. I was not convinced that sleeplessness would connect so neatly with all the health benefits conferred by Kress on her characters, especially not immortality. But the indeterminacy as Leisha grows older improves the story for me and eases my doubts about the technology. Kress delves into potential repercussions of fitness-improving genetic alteration with confidence and smarts.
	After the novella-length “Beggars in Spain” and its grand scale, the down-home “That Only A Mother” was touching and personal if underwhelming. The story reminded me of the strong feelings with which we confer advantages to our family and close friends. We are social animals, no matter what our strengths and weaknesses.
	“Tendeléo’s Story” was a Big Bang. Also following the life of a woman, though written by and briefly from a man’s perspective, we’re introduced to an alien world. And then that world becomes even more alien. The interlude from Sean’s P.O.V. allows the reader time to process and understand before delving into the psychedelic magical Real of the Chaga. A vision of decay in a recognizable world has more emotional impact than the revelation of a super-substance swallowing the Southern Hemisphere and transcending all paradigms. McDonald’s descriptions were delicious. Besides having watched a documentary news series on Liberia, I had read of HIV induced genetic mutation. These images and ideas flavored my imagination while reading about redemptive misery via alien colonization.
	“Jigsaw Man” was a lighter read, though an absurd vision of immortality on the black market through organ transplant. The death penalty for traffic violations!
	“The Screwfly Solution” is a gender-bender religio-social commentary fucked my head. While McDonald wrote notable lines like “the dead houses were like empty skulls” and innovative use of car parts as musical instruments, Tiptree delighted with “Look for the vulnerable link in the behavioral chain” and “Man’s religion and metaphysics are the voices of his glands.” When I checked the to see if Tiptree was indeed quoting some obscure scientist, Google suggested I had meant “glans” instead of “glands.” Tiptree implies that less women means less news. The link he makes between aggression and copulation makes random worldwide femicide seem allegorical or metaphorical or pataphorical, even. The ending line, about a real estate agent, and the angelic visitations, confused me. The ancients could breed with their gods. Tiptree brings up heavy questions, hard to stomach and uncomfortable to contemplate.
	All these stories seem to settle and center around the issues of creation, sacred and/or/but profane. Should we marry outside the church?
East Slavic Folk Medicine
	Things never turn out quite the way you imagine.  So it was with this research project.  I chose my topic, East Slavic folk medicine, on a whim, mostly.  While many other topics looked interesting, folk medicine was something I knew just enough about to be interested in learning more, but not enough that the research project would fail to keep my interest.  I knew folk medicine would involve various herbs and other growing things and I already knew of two that are associated with folk medicine of northern peoples: Amanita muscaria and Rhodiola rosea.  After some preliminary research, however, I found these plants are more typically used by Siberian peoples who, while influenced by the Slavs, are technically part of other ethnic groups.  I did find a monograph by famed mycologist R. Gordon Wasson and his wife, Valentina Pavlovna, called Mushrooms, Russia and history, but was unable to access it.
	The Eastern Slavs, regardless, had a well developed system of folk medicine that incorporated the plants and fungi of their environment, and integrated derived concoctions into their sophisticated belief system.  Depending on who gathered the data, East Slavic peasants would give recipes for witch's salves and brews as containing diabolical ingredients like baby fat and human blood or more likely ingredients like henbane and thorn-apple.  These concrete examples come from the scholarly article “Witchcraft Beliefs and Practices in Prerevolutionary [sic] Russian and Ukrainian Villages” by Christine D. Worobec, a prolific professor of History at Northern Illinois University.  The publication in which her article was published, Russian Review, is a long-running publication based here at the University of Kansas.
	This journal also published another, less explicitly topical article called “Medicine as Reflected in the Laws of Early Rus'.”  The article does provide valuable contextual information and an account of an interesting ritual I did not read about anywhere else.  The article described a common cure for lower back pain that required the sufferer to go into the cellar of a grain barn and rub their back against the wall while repeating an incantation three times.  The source of this ritual and the associated incantations was a law passed forbidding it.  As Orthodoxy gained more influence over the Eastern Slavs, physician-monks and scientific healers from Greece and Turkey competed with traditional folk healers, called volkhvy in this article.  The law mostly sided with the foreign influences but also attempted to regulate the Pagan healers.
	These competing influences of the ancient, familiar Pagan customs and the increasingly powerful Christian establishment had an interesting effect on incantations.  Peasants blended Orthodox and Pagan elements to create rituals that coupled folk cures and Pagan imagery with icons and crosses and pleas directed towards the trinity and other specific Christian figures.  Conrad and Zguta both discuss such amalgamations in depth.  This example of dual-faith is a testament to the syncretistic creativity of the Eastern Slavs, but there was a dark side to this collision of cultures.  Accusations of witchcraft were often used as a way to cull old or disruptive women during hard times.
	Looking through the bibliographies of these articles there were many other promising articles cited that I could not find, presumably because most were quite dated.  I also found some articles through ProQuest discussing Russian folk medicine from a secular medical perspective that I did not include in my concept map.  
	I evaluated my sources by examining their biases.  By paying attention to the way they approached the subject, I could identify elitist, ignorant attitudes toward the subject matter.  The amount of Slavic language sources cited and the author's and publication's credentials were major indicators of the quality of scholarship.  Journals dedicated to Slavic studies were assumed to be more impartial and thorough.  
	Monographs and reference works proved harder to find and generally less interesting.  Why this was I am not sure; JSTOR proved invaluable in finding articles related to my topic but KU Library Catalog searches yielded less useful results.  Limiting searches to English results helped cut out the vast amount of material written in languages with Cyrillic alphabets but did not cut out the glut of monographs on non-Slavic folk medicine.  While the bibliographies of articles proved invaluable in identifying missing monographs, they did not help with finding reference works.  For that, I should have seen Mr. Giullian.  Another late idea that was not put into action was to look for reference entries on witchcraft in Russia, Ukraine and Belarus, as much of what can be considered folk medicine has been categorized under this unfortunate label.
	One monograph, The Golden Bough, mentioned by Joseph Conrad in his article “Russian Ritual Incantations,” I had heard of before in my readings on Neo-Paganism.  As it is quite old I was able to read it online at a familiar website which I was later happy to see used in this class, the Internet Sacred Texts Archive.  Unfortunately, I found the scholarly tome a slow and difficult read and was unable to get past chapter three.  It was additionally difficult to justify reading all sixty nine chapters for the purposes of this assignment because the huge breadth of Frazer's research translates into widely scattered mentions of Slavic peoples.
	Despite that sad setback, I found a couple similarly old monographs on Russian medicine that dedicated short introductory chapters to folk practices.  These told me little beyond what I read in articles but added a healthy dose of Western medical bias.  I browsed the stacks in Anschutz Library looking for similar books but found nothing better for my purposes.  This long library session also included searching through Pharmacopeias.  All of these, however, were focused entirely on the Western pharmaceutical tradition.
	While I had expected monographs to offer me the most interesting information on my topic, in the end scholarly articles proved the most informative.  My first searches were frustrating and yielded little useful information.  However, as I explored new databases and perused the bibliographies of the works I found initially, a vast forest of information revealed itself.  Learning my way around the academic resources available through the library was a great boon; I feel much more confident in my ability to conduct research for future projects.  Bibliographies are like static web links – they point to related information.  While not quite as easy as clicking on a link, calling up a reference is generally much more fruitful.
	Folklore remains relevant to the Slavs today on a pervasive cultural level.  Popular movies like Morozko use folklore as primary source material.  Many folksongs are still sung in states of intoxication.  Songs like Kalinka are recorded and sampled by modern artists like O-Zone.  Even music imitating Western forms, like hip hop, use traditional instruments like the balalaika and accordion.  While the process of commercialization has been heavily influenced by Western Europe, basics like food and drink are sold by appealing to Russian folk sentiments.  Restaurants use folkloric elements in advertising and marketing, creating a faux rural atmosphere or using archetypal characters in commercials and branding.  On a more basic societal level, the forms of Slavic paganism are being reinvented for the purpose of nationalist religious movements.  Nature worshippers, rebellious youths, urban intellectuals and anti-immigrant fascist have all appropriated folkloric elements for their own purposes.  These ad hoc Neo-Pagan movements have grown dramatically in recent years, and while their numbers are unknown, about 40% of Russians do not self-identify with any traditional religious groups.   Many view Christianity as a foreign and corrupt religion foisted upon the Slavs by the Greeks.  Interestingly, some of these groups venerate the pantheon synthesized by Vladmir, the same ruler who made Orthodox Christianity the official religion of ancient Rus.

	Folklore is a term coined by William Thom in 1846 which encompasses myths, fables, tales, legends, proverbs, riddles, folksongs, calendrical rituals, superstitions and omens.  According to American folklorist Benjamin Botkin, folklore is a body of traditional belief, custom and expression handed down through the generations, largely by word of mouth and outside the influence of academia and commerce.  It is an integral part of culture, reflecting the customs and beliefs that shape how a group of people lives.
	The various facets of folklore convey culture in different ways.  For example, folk tales tell simple stories that help guide young people through the tricky liminal period between childhood and adulthood.  Proverbs allow speakers to succinctly invoke cultural norms in a conversational context.  Drunken revelers sing folk-songs, relating to each other on a rhythmic level.  Similar songs allow workers to fall into productive, comfortable rhythms.  Pantheons and bylina anthropomorphize values and ideals for people venerate.  Gender roles, societal hierarchies, and other forces for conformity are also made explicit and reinforced through rituals, superstitions, and fables.  Superstitions and omens act as negative societal memories that scare people away from potential danger, keeping them safe without requiring much thought.  Myths establish the glorious and divine origins of the ethnos and animate the pantheon.
	The most important thing I learned in this class is that showing up is essential and helps tie the material together into a coherent and memorable whole.  I missed much class in the middle of the semester because of mental health problems.  However, once I was back on my feet and started attending class again I began to understand the outside reading material much better.  This has already helped give me a better perspective on news coming from the Slavic world, from recent changes in Russian government to the troubling trend of anti-immigrant violence perpetrated by skinheads.
	This course augmented my understanding of other peoples by exposing me to the cultural inheritance of the Slavs, a people about which I knew little about.  I was fairly familiar with the Soviet era and the conflict in the Balkans but knew little about the time before the Cold War.
	Almost two years ago I went to Herzegovina on a pilgrimage led by my devout Catholic grandmother.  At the time I did not realize the locals had such close ethnic and linguistic ties to the Russians, Czechs, Poles and Ukrainians.  The few locals I talked to expressed their hatred for Muslims and zealously supported the Croatians in the World Cup.  I escaped from the pilgrimage group one day and adventured to the uninhabited side of “cross mountain” where I found a tree-ringed grove.  Tangential to the trees there was a pile of stone blocks I initially took to be the ruins of a wall but could have once been an altar, for all I know.  Walking into the grove I was half expecting a devil or other fantastical creature to emerge, but instead I nearly ran into the biggest spider web I have ever seen which seemingly stretched across the considerable expanse of the grove.  It supported a huge spider that was nevertheless smaller than others I had seen in the area.  After I went around the web as best I could the grove seemed less threatening but I was still compelled to leave.  I exited the ring of trees with a furtive backwards glance.  After I climbed back up the smallish mountain and watched the sunset over unspoiled wilderness I decided Mary was an incarnation of the Earth Mother and felt less enmity towards Catholicism.  I would like to go back to that grove someday, and if I make it, I will have a better equipped imagination for exploring the potentialities of its past thanks to this class.
	I also learned about the resources that the KU library has to ease the research process, which will help me in many classes.  This was my first semester at KU, so having to explore the stacks and becoming familiar with the library catalog, JSTOR, and the many other databases available through the library was immensely valuable.
	Let me have a word. If I ever uttered “Nosferatu” and it brought me harm, I don’t think I could have pinned it on that utterance. It’s hard to say why exactly we suffer. But people try. Always, they try, because otherwise, where would the meaning be? Nosferatu is a prime example. Why the vampire - an amalgam of many volk fears - comes to Wisborg is a mystery. He wants to buy a house. Knock doesn’t ask questions, he just wants money, so he sends Hutter, who is willing to brave a journey to the land of ghosts and phanroms for the money Knock promises. Sounds innocuous enough, if colored a bit by greed. The strange letter, though, hints at something amiss with Count Orlock. A mockery of a script, all pictograms and weird symbols, cues the watcher that there is something bizarre and foreign about this Count. “a bit of blood” might be lost, but Hutter is gung-ho. 

From 1916 to 1926, the French Impressionist Claude Monet spent his days painting the surroundings of his property in Giverny, France.  In 1893 he had dug a pond and created a water garden inspired by the Japanese style (Museum label).  One of his paintings of this water garden, a part of the Water Lilies series, currently hangs in the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, Missouri.  This oil on canvas painting is an example of the Later Impressionist style from the Later Nineteenth Century European period.  The work shows how Monet’s unique style developed after the Impressionist crisis of the last twenty years of the nineteenth century.  This work is quite large and in excellent condition.
	The composition of this piece emphasizes a dream-like view of the pond.  It follows a loose diagonal, dividing the painting into two parts that roughly mirror each other.  The eye is first drawn to the cluster of flowers in the bottom left corner, goes to the top middle-left cluster, goes down to the cluster around the bottom middle-right, and then back up to a cluster in the top right corner.  There is a wide variety of colors but they all blend into each other.
	The most unconventional aspect of this work is the sense of space.  It seems at first to be painted from the perspective of a person on the edge of the pond looking down across the surface of the pond.  However, when the viewer looks closer, it is nearly impossible to discern exactly from what point of view the artist is painting.  The blue of the pond can be seen even at the very bottom of the composition in shapes and shades that disrupt any sense of spatial context.  Hence, the viewer seems to float in the pond with the flowers (Stokstad 510).  This brings out the dream-like nature of the work.
	This misty, dreamy quality extends to the objects portrayed as well.  The subject of the painting is the natural setting of the water garden, but Monet is clearly not trying to create a realistic scene.  There are no clear lines and all shapes are rough and loosely painted.  His painterly technique leaves visible his vertical brushstrokes in the areas representing the surface of the pond and the ovally flick-of-the-wrist strokes that form the flowers.  The light, whimsical brushstrokes leave the viewer with a sense that all elements of the painting are preternaturally light.  However, the clusters of flowers definitely have more volume than the surrounding water.
	There are many colors involved in this composition.  Greens, blues and purples feature prominently, with light yellows, oranges and reds balancing them out.  The colors are almost entirely of medium saturation, with the exception of a vibrant red and white flower in the upper right corner.  This generally uniform saturation brings the composition together and contributes to the misty atmosphere of the piece.  Contrast is low throughout, helping to unify the work as well.  The areas of highest contrast are around the flowers, which transition from a whitish pink to the surrounding purple, green or blue without much blending.
	Texture plays a prominent role in the painting.  Monet’s painterly style makes his brush strokes stand out, adding texture to the surface of the painting, especially around the flowers.  These areas also stand out noticeably from the canvas – evidence that more layers of paint were used, giving the impression that the flowers are floating.
	Impressionism appeared in the second half of the nineteenth century.  This time saw the rise of the positivist mindset, which emphasized progress and the “ultimate perfectibility of human civilization”.  Positivism was characterized by a “faith in the positive consequences” of scientific inquiry.  This mindset influenced the art world as well, manifesting itself most dramatically as a rejection of the Romanticism that characterized academic art at the time.  The French Academy exerted a strong influence throughout the Western world.  Into this atmosphere came Monet and the Impressionists, a group of artists who met at the Café Guerbois in Paris.  In April 1874, these artists put on the first major exhibition of their work at the Société Anonyme in Paris. Their style was disdainfully dubbed Impressionist, a label appropriated from the title of a painting by Monet.  This label was embraced by the group, however, as it pointed to a key tenet of their aesthetic.  Conservative critics ridiculed Monet and his fellow Impressionists because their paintings were essentially sketches.  The idea behind the style was to try to capture “the fleeting effects of light and atmosphere”.  They painted en plein air, meaning in the open air, to facilitate the painting of the present moment.  By the time Monet painted Water Lilies, most of his contemporaries had grown away from their Impressionist roots.  Monet stayed closest to the original style, but his Water Lilies paintings “have been described as precursors of Abstract Expressionism”.

	Daniel Glick’s article “Global Warming / SOS” discusses the effect of global warming on the ecosystems of the Arctic.  He focuses on the changes taking place in ice- and land-based ecosystems, as well as how these changes are impacting humans, specifically native peoples.
	The article initially discusses how melting ice is forcing animals that have evolved to live on ice flows and glaciers to alter their behavior.  In extreme cases, polar bears are drowning and walruses are abandoning their cubs.  On land, parts of the tundra are thawing, making way for small shrubbery.  These vegetable invaders are reducing the room available for mosses and lichens, which feed lemmings.  These small rodents are a key part of the ecological balance on the tundra, and a decline in their food source could have devastating consequences for the entire food chain.  For groups native to the Arctic, the melting ice and changing ecosystems are taking a toll as well.  Hunting patterns must be adapted to these changes.  With warming temperatures and the resultant new commercial opportunities in the Arctic, these heavily adapted, specialized cultures are losing the ability to support themselves in traditional ways.
	Glick makes no recommendations about what to do about this crisis, but does place the blame for the rapid warming of the Arctic squarely on humans.  He concludes that the planet’s northernmost reaches are being fundamentally altered and that humans will be adjusting to the consequences for years to come.
	Glick’s article generally agrees with Bergman & Renwick’s characterization of climate change, but he elaborates significantly on the ecological consequences of the phenomenon on the Arctic.  The article focuses on areas with D and E climates as classified by the Köppen system.  While Glick focuses mostly on wildlife and the concerns of conservationists, at the end of the article he brings up some of the geopolitical issues associated with global warming.
	The article struck me as informative and well researched.  While its transition paragraphs were overly repetitive, “Global Warming / SOS” clearly illustrated and explained many of the worrying phenomena occurring in the Arctic.  The reader can see from the specifics the author includes that the Arctic is undergoing serious and fundamental changes.  If the reader is actively involved in the conservation movement this article could inspire them to direct more of their effort and attention to the Arctic, but otherwise it is not immediately useful.  The author cannot be faulted for not giving the reader a clearer idea of how these changes will affect humanity at large, however.  Global warming is a complex problem and will have correspondingly complex results.
The meek shall inherit the earth.  The disabled, cripples, the broken and deformed, will be the first cyborgs.  The Singularity - that is, the paradigm shift away from our current monkey-brained state to a higher level of consciousness and unfathomable way of being - will begin with these least among us.

scifi dealing specifically with biotech has been underwhelming; that is an area to look into

in the future, freaks will be able to genetically engineer their skin color

VR, "historically," is a lure into decorporealizing and becoming a brain-in-a-vat hooked up to a vast network of brains, making telepathy a reality; such consciounesses act in space via organisms genetically engineered to receive neural stimulation in waves (not sure what wavelength, but something that can hold a lot of info).
remotely controlled lion kills last remaining christians who refused the singularity in the same sense the Amish refused the Industrial Revolution.  Advertised as the Rapture/Ascension into Heaven

oranges have pits now through evolutionary processes we don't understand

the wealthy will be genetically engineered into a separate species and be known as heralds, fulfilling a sociological role as well as a religious one

when a traumatic event happens in dystopian future, the area is sprayed with a beta-blocker by patrolling drones to reduce rehabilitation costs, in a way similar to the forgetting flasher thing in Men in Black 

old colonial exploitative relationships are reemerging as oil access is increasingly contested and climate change intensifies, causing instability via ecological changes; USA to become a slum country?

naked lunch meets tolkien

sci-fi needs stuff about invasive species spreading and then speciation

story about future dystopian government controlled mental health program where people diagnosed with bipolar, schizo, etc are monitored by the government and if they don't take their meds they get taken away and punished like schoolchildren

robots controlled by video game handsets battling to destruction; neural interfaces to come

I came up evenly, sitting in a quiet room in a library.  listened to vivaldi and matisyahu.  thought about how Christianity has been perverted and the nature of Jesus.  strong experience, very tryptamine and very fun.  listened to matisyahu.  danced on the way back to my dorm, talked to some friends, walked around and smoked a joint.  first signs that solitude was necessary.  mj definitely intensified things.  went to the dining hall in the dark and peaked.  definite brief ego-loss.  fucking incredible.  i am a member of the cult of creation.  i felt like i connected directly with the concept of creation, yahweh, brahma, whatever.  had a vision like a spinning flower coming out of a black hole.  incredible, dynamic representative visual, like a mandala.  was up to near that level for a while, incredible patterning, the bathroom seemed to breath, carpet with barely any discernable color differences started making very distinct patterns, kind of like a straight stalked plant with elongated fern-like leaves coming out all up and down it, the entire thing interconnected.  open eye version of a closed eye hallucination i had on salvia i could only describe as an infinite marching zipper.  lots of flowers, crosses, crowns, eyes, etc with closed eyes, incredible patterns matching my thought progressions and the music i listened to.  difficulty with lucidity and social interaction starting after i smoked cannabis, followed by some awesome social insights, leading to a good time partying afterwards (i was emcee and drank and served sangria).  lasted about 6 hours with some residuals coming back with some cannabis.

Whitman will be the death of me.
but not ME.

I wish I would have straight up told you 
but you stole my heart, 
and its too cold to
love you
like i used to
so please refrain from caroling
because its crazy fucked up
and i'll put one in the cup
because i don't care,
i just liked his hair,
does that make me vain
i know i'm insane!
please explain.

bad poetry,
oh noetry.

you are the finest fox to ever jump out of the box.

thanks for being my friend, even when I'm an island.  i want to talk to you on the phone soon.

sorry this was so ridiculously emo.  like elmo.  he was red and cute and funny but reminds me of bugs bunny because his nose was like a carrot and he was always getting beaten by oscar the grouch, who was always cheatin'

when's the meetin'?
who's the cretin?
i just love the whip
and i know what that makes me
a sado-masochist
but i've never been kissed;
sincerely, 
clearly,
its a yearly thing
this spring
forward
fall back
listen to the sound
of yo booty goin' smack
like gack.

thats crap.  but if you like that,
i hope you get a good laugh
or a good cry because this tension
within me has just been building up so high
i thought that slavery was funny
and had an oral fixation like bugs bunny.

i'm not sure if this is funny; but I do sincerely love you.
I wish I had walked you to the door
I HATE TO BE SUCH A FUCKING BORE
but i'm sore
sore from mary jane
her sweet caress drove me insane.

google is talking to me.  that is bad.
google is a very large number.  too large for any mind.
howly aptly timed!
i speak when i rhyme
and rhyme when i speak
and sometimes come across
as though i am very meek
but i'm over that creek
a gypsy made me go eek
and let out a shriek like a wolf in the night

but that wolf will die soon
and though people will lampoon
i will hoodwink them enough
that they're all filled with fluff
from processed stuff
what a muff

dead meat scares me but only a bit,
because i know that i can overcome it
i threw a fit.
i bit.
i was bitten.
i was smitten.
she was like a kitten,
and i, a black puppy
floating along like a stupid guppy.

this is a race,
to the same place,
but i dont want to win.
i want to slow down and maybe begin
again
in a sense.
trim the hedges,
mend the fence.

i have created for myself an intellectual suburbia and gas prices are sky-rocketing.  fuck geology.  i like biology.  not sociology, thats a folly see.

i'm scared of blue people.  but who knew people
could become like smurfs
one with the turf
one earth.

i don't know what to worship anymore.  the popes in the middle ages were pimps.  disgusting.  opulent.  arrogant.  scare them then they'll be sheep and we will be a bald eagle,
the birds of prey. and live to scavenge another day.

the jungle haunts me like i read it yesterday.


Drug Psychosis is a BITCH.  Like marry jane.  Divorce that shit and move on.  thats what my mom did.  pull it out of the ground, compost it.  sustainability is the key.  a very long and intricate key.  too long for any one person, really.  but if you stretch it out, the intricacies go away and it becomes all manner of grokable objects, if you'll excuse my french.

i feel like an alien here.  i see the ants buzz around their little hive and wonder if they are just the stingers of dead bees.  or the smoke particles from burnt trees.

I AM RADIOACTIVE
TOXIC WASTE
MIX ME UP
INTO A PASTE

I GOT into the game early.
the virgin mary seduced me.
and then it was a woodland nymph who stole my foreskin
and made me scrambled.

so i went for a stroll,
and ended up in a knoll
only to find
i don't believe in math
WHAT?

liminality
brings so many things
TOGETHER

AND GOD SAID!












LET THERE BE LIGHT!

    The importance of the Fortinbras subplot in Hamlet is developed from the start of the play. King Claudius' first action, after summarizing the situation with Hamlet, is to send messengers to Norway to check the actions of the rambunctious Fortinbras. In II.2 he receives a letter from the old king of Norway, who claims to be ignorant of any plot against Denmark. Having thought Fortinbras' intentions were to attack Poland, he has him arrested. Fortinbras swears to never again threaten Denmark, and in return the King grants him a stipend and permission to attack Poland. The end of the King's letter asks Claudius to allow his troops safe passage through Denmark to Poland, with a guarantee of Danish safety. Claudius reacts positively to this news but puts off reading over and responding to the letter.
    Fortinbras is not mentioned again until he appears in IV.4. He shows up on the borders of the kingdom and sends a herald to ask permission from Claudius to pass through as agreed upon. Hamlet greets the herald, who tells him of Fortinbras' plan. Hamlet then questions him. He learns that Fortinbras will fight for a "little patch of ground/That hath in it no profit but the name" (17-18). An aside follows: Hamlet comments on the foolishness of the wealthy and the thick-skulled boredom with peace that leads to such wars as Fortinbras'. Once the herald leaves Hamlet goes even further into reflection with a soliloquy. He curses his indecision and cowardice, saying that "when honor's at stake" it doesn't matter what is fought over. Fortinbras and his army's planned invasion inspire admiration in Hamlet and once again push his planned revenge to the fore-front of his fevered mind.
    Once he has his revenge, Hamlet again praises Fortinbras. Hearing the Norwegian army returning from Poland, Hamlet gives his dying breath to endorse Fortinbras as king of Denmark. Fortinbras enters the scene, hears Horatio speak of the tale he'll tell, and "with sorrow" assumes the throne of Denmark (389). Horatio hints at Hamlet's endorsement of Fortinbras and Fortinbras responds by sending Hamlet's body away with respect and military flourish.
    The evidence suggests that the Fortinbras subplot plays an important role in the play. It lends an undercurrent of instability to Denmark's political situation, making Hamlet's instablity of greater consequence. Fortinbras' little war hastens Hamlet's actions by providing him inspiration. And Fortinbras' timely return after the main plot's tragic end gives Horatio the opportunity to summarize the mayhem before the latest claimant of the Danish throne.

Playing the Part
    Shakespeare writes plays, play-acting, and theatrical allusions into his plays. For Hamlet, “the play's the thing Wherein I’ll catch the conscience of the King” (2.2.605-6). A Midsummer Night’s Dream also contains a play -- “A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus And his love Thisbe; very tragical mirth” (5.1.56-7). In The Taming of the Shrew, the courtships of Bianca and Kate have but “come to play a pleasant comedy” for a captive drunk who himself accepts the offered role of mad noble (1.2.130). 
    These plays within a play help clarify the main plots by bringing the audience deeper into the story. In the case of The Taming of the Shrew, Shakespeare mocks the audience, compares them to a hoodwinked drunk. At the same time, Shakespeare mocks the production of a play: the mischievous Lord compels his entourage of servants and companions to act various parts. But this mockery does no offense to the audience; they are allowed escape through the efforts of others. Shakespeare's light jab only serves to highlight the special delights of the theater.
    Plays within plays bring the audience closer to the characters in the play, as well. Hamlet uses The Mousetrap to verify the story told by his father's ghost at the beginning of the play. Arguably, the play climaxes with at its end. Most definitely the play is a major turning point, as King Claudius' reaction reveals his guilt and makes Hamlet more set on revenge. Hamlet's use of a play for his own ends is unique, but besides moving the plot along it shows the audience an incident which had before only been told to them. The impact of Claudius' betrayal becomes more real for both the audience and the players.
     The audience can also be surprised by connections, parallels, and suggestions made by plays within plays. A Midsummer Night's Dream ends with such a play. The story of Pyramus and Thisbe, as performed by the Rude Mechanicals, a group of working men, entertains six major characters, the King and Queen of Athens as well as the newly united lovers, through its sloppiness though it touches them in the end. The play clearly parodies Romeo and Juliet, being a story of forbidden love that ends in tragedy. The contrast between the story that has just unfolded, where the supernatural world of Faerie intervenes into human affairs to prevent bloodshed between two men competing over a woman, and a tragic story of unaided lovers bring the to mind the role of the supernatural in the play.
    Play-acting within major plot-lines permeates Shakespeare’s plays. Iago constantly play-acts in order to further his plot against Othello. In The Taming of the Shrew, Bianca’s suitors don costumes and assume identities in order to court her. And in Much Ado About Nothing, friends pretend Biatrice and Benedick love each other in order to bring them together.
    In Henry IV, Prince Henry and Jack Falstaff play-act in the Boar's Head tavern after a messenger comes for Henry and his friend Falstaff receives the message for him. Noting that surely King Henry will chide his son for his behavior, Falstaff and the Prince devise a game in which they play the disappointed King. First, Falstaff gives a drunken speech, which ends after he flatters himself and Hal insists he have a try at his father. Hal then counters Falstaff's boasts with a scathing list of titles: 
that trunk of humors, that bolting-hutch of beastliness, that swollen parcel of dropsies, that huge bombard of sack, that stuffed cloakbag of guts, that roasted Manningtree ox with the pudding in his belly, that reverend Vice, that gray iniquity, that father ruffian, that vanity in years (2.4.396-401)
Falstaff must be taken aback, as before he responds he asks Hal to explicitly say of whom he spoke.
    Falstaff's response belies the pretense of role-playing. His defense humanizes him. First, he asks whether he can be faulted for his common failings: "If to be old and merry be a sin, then many an old host that I know is damned" (416-417). Then he moves into his usual boasting, but repetitively and without his usual flourishes. Repetition continues in the final lines:
Banish not him thy Harry's company,
Banish not him thy Harry's company.
Banish plump Jack, and banish all the world (422-424).
Here, through the play-acting, Falstaff  makes a heartfelt case for himself outside of his usual joking manner. Calling the Prince "Harry," both within the context of play-acting and their tavern relationship, appeals to their familiarity and emotional connection. The last line sums up the brief argument that came before, bringing to mind his faults but also his humanity.
    Henry's response -- "I do; I will" -- suggests he will abandon Jack and their merry games. Indeed, in Henry V, he has disowned Falstaff and immersed himself in the high-stakes play-acting of politics. He fills his role as King admirably, ruthlessly executing dissenters, uniting his kingdom through war against France, inspiring his troops with magnificent speeches, and courting the French Katherine though he had already won her.
    But perhaps the most notorious play-actor in Shakespeare's plays is Iago, the villain of Othello. Thinking his wife unfaithful with Othello he plots to be "evened with him, wife for wife" or "At least [put him] into a jealousy so strong That judgment cannot cure" (2.1.96,98). He hides his plotting well. He speaks his true feelings only in soliloquy; when others are present he plays the role and says the lines which will advance his plot. He does not have to do much, as Othello and others assume him "most honest" (2.3.6). In his first major move, he convinces Roderigo that Cassio has had Othello's wife Desdemona, with whom Roderigo is smitten. He then enlists him to provoke the mad-when-drunk Cassio so as to shame him. Iago then gets Cassio to drink through song and encouragement. Roderigo follows through with the plan, and Othello is summoned to deal with the ensuing fight. Iago claims ignorance to the cause of the fight and gives a carefully edited account of what he saw. His gambit works, and Othello discharges Cassio.
    Iago continues to sow discord while playing the role of the faithful servant and friend throughout the play. Only in the end does his wife Emilia reveal his play-acting for what it is: lies. Play-acting like Falstaff's may shine with truth but always skirts it. Plays are poetic lies, as Puck alludes to the audience at the end of A Midsummer-Night's Dream:
If we shadows have offended,
Think but this, and all is mended, 
That you have but slumber'd here 
While these visions did appear (5.2).
    Henry V, on the other hand, begins with a theatrical allusion. The play makes use of a chorus, a device borrowed from the ancients. It appears regularly to summarize and comment upon the action. In its introductory appearance,  the chorus makes direct reference to the bare stage of Shakespeare's day, asking for the audience's pardon and imagination cooperation in bringing the play and its various locales to life.
    Such allusions to the theater bring attention to the roles each person inhabits each day. Through these devices, Shakespeare explores the ambiguities of action and extent to which real life is like theater -- both require imagination.

Plutarch's Life of Alexander, VI

    Philonicus the Thessalian took Bucephalus the horse to Philip to sell for thirteen talents. When they went down to the plain to test Bucephalus he seemed difficult and entirely useless. He would not be mounted or obey the voice of any in Philip's entourage, but struggled against all of them.
    Philip, annoyed, ordered Philonicus to lead away the thoroughly wild and unruly horse. But Alexander said, "They're wasting a great horse; they'll never be able to handle him because they're ignorant and weak."
    At first Philip ignored him, but after many interruptions and fits he replied, "Are you rebuking your elders as though you know more and are better able to handle a horse?"
    "I could definitely handle this horse better than them."
    "And if you can't, what will be the penalty for your insolence?"
    "By Zeus, I'll pay the price of the horse."
    His words brought laughter. Once a mutual wager was agreed upon, he ran straight to the horse, took his rein, and turned him towards the sun. Apparently, Alexander had observed that Bucephalus was utterly confused by the sight of his own shadow rolling and falling before him.
    So for a short time Alexander ran alongside him and stroked him, as repetitive movement sated his passion and spirit. Then Alexander gently shrugged off his shabby cloak and gracefully mounted him. Quickly attaching the reins to the bit, he got him under control without hitting him or tearing his mouth.  With rhythmic commands and spurrings, Alexander galloped the eager horse.
    Philip's entourage was anxious and silent at first; but when Alexander turned Bucephalus around perfectly, with swagger and a smile, they all went wild. They say that his father even cried tears of joy. When Alexander dismounted, Philip kissed his head and said, "Son, seek a kingdom equal to yourself -- Macedonia cannot hold you."

I hope to fill an IT Student Assistant position. I anticipate learning more about KU Information Services and using my knowledge to help members of the KU community. I have been using computers as far back as I can remember. Having used the web since the early days of AOL free trial CDs, I can scarcely imagine life without it. Consequently, I understand the grammar of the web. [I'm asked more about the web than anything else. It used to be that my relatives and friends mainly had questions about printers and productivity software.] I am confident that I can answer questions about KU's online services as well as I can troubleshoot software and hardware. I have done a similar job in a campus setting before, but there was nothing like the ticket system described in the position overview. Such a system seems like it would facilitate an organized and collaborative work environment. 
 
I was recently let go from my Student Hourly job as an IT Assistant at the Energy
Balance Lab. Losing that job brings my dependability and maturity into
question. During the last school year I worked from 1 PM to 5 PM and rarely
missed a shift. I am a night-owl, which can lead to sleep deprivation and
compensatory oversleeping. This summer I tried to work a 9 to 5 schedule. The
early start and my growing isolation drove the increase in absences. The IT
coordinator and I did not work well together because we used different tools
for a same tasks and thus had differing vocabularies. I felt out of place
among the biology students, nutritionists, and physiologists in the lab. By
the time I was let go, I was only maintaining the obsolete website and
performing infrequent computer maintenance.
 
[When I first began that job, I wanted to make a career out of working with
computers. It was the third time I had turned my hobby into a job. As the
school year progressed, however, my vision for my future began to change. I
have realized that I would rather focus on school and work with people who
share my academic interests.] As long as my mornings are dedicated to
academics and I start related work in the afternoon, I am confident in my
dependability.
 
When you work at an ice cream shop and you scoop out the last of a barrel and the scoop isn’t quite up to weight, you look at the customer and ask if it's all right. You should have changed the barrel earlier but it was busy. If the customer is all right with it you try to make their next one fatter but if they want a better cone they ask you to go in back and grab a new barrel. If it’s there's a line you tell them you’re out and if they’re really insistent you go in the back and check to make sure. Even if there is more in the back unless it’s a popular flavor you come back out with a sorry expression and say you’re all out.
 
When you work at an ice cream shop on a hot summer day you get a steady trickle of customers. Once all the chores are done and you’re just standing around you feel entitled to make yourself a cone or drink or popcorn or whatever. If it’s raining you can make anything you want, even a banana split, and sit there eating it and not worry. If the day is nice you might be able to sneak in a cone on break, but normally you just go with a milkshake to drink as you can. If things are really gonna be busy and you’re dragging you might make yourself a coffee drink. If there's gonna be a rush but you’ve got a quiet store and no-one to judge you but your co-worker, you can take a shot of the pure espresso syrup you use to make the coffee drinks. You can’t overdo it though, because while a few will make you more efficient and pleasant and confident, too much will make you scatterbrained and over-hurried and maybe you’ll drop something and have to make it all over again.
 
When I worked at the movie theater on the Plaza in Kansas City I had a co-worker who talked all the time. We were ushers, which meant we helped people find their theaters, stood around at premieres looking important, but mostly cleaned up after customers. We typically had time to kill and worked with one or two other ushers, so there was time to get to know one another or watch parts of movies. Normally we’d talk about movies or customers or our boss or whatever was in the news -- small talk -- but one of my co-workers took the opportunity to tell us whatever was on his mind. Justin had me know the first day I worked with him that he grew up in a single family home with his mom in the historically black east KC neighborhood, had done a tour in Afghanistan and another in Iraq, and was gonna be filthy rich one day. He would tell me about his plans to use some military program to buy up real-estate on the cheap and then sell it after a year or so and make tons of money and go from there and start his own company making video games. He loved video games and talked about them as much as he talked about movies. The money we made as ushers wasn’t much, so to support his habit he pirated games and had hacked all his gaming machines. He’d spent most of his Army money to buy a powerful gaming computer and had a complicated set-up at home. He also downloaded every new movie that came out in theaters, even if he had no intention of watching it. For archival purposes, he said. 
    I didn’t ask too many questions. It was hard to get a word in. He talked constantly, and every once in a while would slip in something totally unexpected. Once he told me how he lost his virginity. One day he and his friends were playing video games at a house when. There was a girl upstairs and she would call each one up in turns and have sex with them. He was eleven. He started going into more detail but I stopped him with some comment. He’d always give me advice on girls. No one is out of your league, he’d say. And he’d hit on customers all the time, a few of whom were more receptive than others. Before I left to go off to college, he had just bought new rims for his Acura and wanted to show me them. He wouldn’t stop talking about them so I humored him and followed him into the parking garage at the end of my last shift. When we got there I saw some five spoke shiny silver rims, nothing too flashy or novel in design. When he saw them he freaked, building a long Aw, check it OUT under his hand. Check out that sickness! I did my best to look and sound impressed, but didn’t know what to say. I wasn’t much into cars, but I used what vocabulary I had. Before he left to get back to work he said again, No one’s out of your league man, don’t let a girl intimidate you. And I stood there for a while and took the same elevator he did after it came back up and walked through the theater to the locker room and cleared out my locker and walked back to the parking garage and drove away.
 
One time I was working at the Baskin-Robbins at 63rd and Wornall and an older woman with stringy wavy gray hair and a stooped coiled body came in with her twentysomething son. You could tell something was a bit off about her. She had a wild look in her, a stare that said she didn’t trust you and never would. They ordered well enough, the woman ordering first and then asking her son what he wanted, saying he could only get one scoop. I went to make her milkshake and my co-worker scooped her son’s ice cream. My co-worker went to ring them up but she wasn’t having it. She said that she didn’t want to pay until she got her shake, with a tone like my co-worker was being presumptuous or rudely trying to move them along. She then started complaining loudly and bitterly about how prices had gone up but the cones were smaller. Her son just stood there and shifted around and looked mild and embarrassed. He said something quietly to his mom but she told him off and then started into my co-worker again. Turned out she didn’t have enough cash for the price and took this to be our fault, like we were trying to take advantage of her or somehow victimizing her.
    My co-worker won’t give her a discount as she's being extremely rude so he clears the register and walks outside to smoke a cigarette, leaving me finishing up the lady’s milkshake. I bring it up to the counter and ring her up same as before. She’s taken the brief interlude to get out her checkbook and writes a six-dollar check while muttering under her breath about how stupid people are and how it’s such a rip off and not the same as it used to be and we should have just gone to the grocery store and bought two tubs of ice cream for the same price. I just stare at her, take her check, not wanting to start shit with a batty insane paranoid overbearing witchy mother. She and her son sit down to their ice cream but the tension stays, as she keeps making bitter comments about everything in her sight. All the other customers are petrified and one table finishes their ice cream early and jets out. My co-worker comes back in and she ratchets up her verbal abuse. Eventually he asks her to leave and she spits more venom and he gives up and goes in back. I don’t know what to do, she hasn’t been mean to me and I feel like she might hex me or something if I try to tell her to leave. I clean and give her my best evil eye to keep her quiet. Eventually they quiet down and finish their ice cream and then leave and my co-worker comes out and we complain about what an awful person she was and apologize to the remaining customers, a couple teenagers who seem amused by the whole thing. The family with little kids are long gone.

Who is the monster in the novel?
    The obvious monster is Frankenstein's monster. Made by Victor from raw materials with the secret of life he discovered through his studies of natural philosophy, he is the embodiment of the dire consequences of the ambitious quest to "unfold to the world the deepest mysteries of creation" (40). Victor's desire to reveal "the cause of generation and life" is the true monster which leads to all the tragedy that he chronicles to Walton.

What are the roles of nature in the novel?
    Nature reflects the mood of the story. A storm accompanies Victor's return to Geneva after his monster kills William, which he perceives as William's funeral dirge. Victor escapes to Nature to renew his spirits throughout his life, and also meets the monster there, as the wilderness is the only place in which the monster is safe.

In what ways are Victor and the Creature doppelgangers?
    The Creature appears to Victor always as a bad omen, a harbinger of bad news. He embodies Victor's unholy deed and by unleashing his malice brings pain to Victor and those he loves. The Creature's supernatural nature convinces those who see him that he is a fiend, a daemon, a not-quite-real visitor from another world come to spread misery.

How is the feminine characterized in the novel?
    The feminine remains passive. The letters which comprise the novels are nearly all written to women, the passive reader. Elizabeth lives only for her family and receives praise for her loving domesticity. Justine also has little to no active power. The scene in which she and Elizabeth talk, the most words any women get in the entire novel, involves confession of helplessness and lamenting fate.

 
    "OK, OK, my turn," I said.
    "Fine, but I’m next," said Keith.
    "OK, I heard this story from my nurse when I was at the Health Center for swine flu last week."
   "Your nurse told you a scary story when you were sick?"
    "Yeah well we got to be on good terms and she asked me about the Swamp Thing comics I was reading and after I told her about them she told me this legend she’d heard from a student in the Biology department."
    "Oh all right, sounds like it’s got some potential. Let’s hear it."
    "OK, so, there was this Biology professor in the 80s named Alec Moore who was very accomplished in the field of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. He'd won some awards but the acclaim started to go to his head. He started acting strange in class and in the lab and there were rumors that he'd started taking drugs. The people in his lab were the most worried. He started to work on a mysterious serum -- that's what he called it -- that he planned to release into Clinton Lake to clear it of all invasive fish species. He claimed to have discovered some genetic pattern that could distinguish invasive species from native ones. The serum would supposedly increase the growth and reproduction rates of the natives and retard that of the invasives. His colleagues and students were skeptical and wrote him off as crazy, but his success had earned him the money to work on whatever he wanted."
    "That doesn't make any sense," Laura said. "How would he deal with future variation in the native species?"
    "Exactly, among other considerations. The only person who believed in his idea was his protégé and disciple, Alan Olson, one of the top students in the school. They'd done experiments with small pools of one native species and one invasive species and had success, but experiments beyond that hadn't been as conclusive. Olson obsessed over the problem. His schoolwork suffered.
    One morning after Olson had been up late in the lab as had become his habit, a grad student found equipment, serum and notes strewn everywhere. Reading the notes he could make out that Olson thought he had made a major breakthrough and got excited. On the last page in his notebook were scrawled notes about fins and hands and scaly skin. No one could find Olson anywhere.
    The next day Professor Moore's students were informed that he taken a indefinite leave of absence and that their lectures would be given by other faculty. Moore had been taken to a psychiatric hospital after raving about a fish man visiting him at home. There were murmurs connecting the two incidents, but that seemed too outlandish. The official story was that a novel stimulant that had been found in Moore's medicine cabinet and Olson's bag had driven them both crazy. The only difference was that Olson was on the loose.
    Olson stayed missing and Moore came back to teach, apparently having been convinced that he really had gone crazy. He reconsidered his research and decided to focus on data collection in the field to get an updated sense of the lake's condition. His preliminary findings astonished him. The number of invasive fish in the lake had dropped dramatically. He could not explain it, so he decided to take more data at difference times of day.
    One night a student of his was surveying fish populations and thought she saw a large fish-like creature swim under her boat. She reported it to Moore. He dismissed it at first, but soon decided to accompany one of the night surveys. After he threw back an invasive fish he saw a large creature resembling the fish man that he had seen swim up to the fish and swallow it whole.
    The fish man surfaced soon afterward and addressed the stunned Moore.
    ‘Professor Moore!’ he said, ‘it's me, Alan. I'm doing your work, Professor Moore!’
    Professor Moore remained speechless. The thing’s voice was raspy but recognizable.
    ‘No, it can’t be you,” he said. “You’re a hallucination! Oh, God, did I forget my meds today?’
    ‘Alec, I spilt the serum on myself that night in the lab, and this is what happened to me. You’re not crazy.’ He held up his webbed hands and turned to show his gills.
    ‘No, I must be. That’s not possible. The serum was only supposed to affect fish.’
    ‘We never tested it on humans, Dr. Moore. We had no idea.’
    ‘My God, Alan, I am sorry, so sorry. Look at you! You’re a monster!’
    ‘Yes, I suppose I am. I still feel human, mentally, but I can’t write anymore because of my hands. At first, I survived outside of the water, but as the days past I yearned to be in the water. I don’t think I’d make it on land anymore. I’m lonely here in the lake. But I’ve taken it upon myself to use what our serum has wrought to accomplish the goals we had in mind.’
    ‘Eating the invasive fish?’
    ‘Yes. And I’m succeeding aren’t I? Besides the loneliness, being free from civilization is great. No grant proposals to write, annoying students to deal with, or long hours in the lab trying to solve a problem indirectly through organic chemistry. I’m active, doing what we set out to do, without restriction.’
    ‘But Alan, you’ll never be able to wipe out all the invasive fish in the entire lake.’
    ‘But I can try, and I have a better sense for the ecosystem than you ever will, sitting in a boat.’
    ‘Alan, I cannot accept this. Monstrous, unscientific! How will I explain this? No one will believe me. No one did believe me! And the sudden change in the statistics! We can’t very well parade you around before the press, there would be an outrage!’
    ‘Professor Moore, be reasonable! Think of my accomplishments.’
    ‘I am being reasonable, you monster! What can a monster, regardless of who it once was, tell me about reason?!’
    Alan, the lake thing, the fish man, stared at Dr. Moore.
    ‘I thought you would understand. I thought you, of all people, would be able to look beyond my apparent deformity, see my utility, my value. But you’re just like everyone else. The first time after the incident that I looked in the mirror, I admit, I was horrified. But here in the lake, I have a purpose, I’m solving a problem. I belong here.’
    ‘And say you do wipe out the invasive species? What happens then? Won’t you disturb the ecosystem as well?’
    ‘I will live in harmony with the ecosystem! I know the principles of ecology. The ecosystem here has room for me.’
    ‘You fool; did you learn anything from me? Whatever you did learn, that serum wiped it from your brain. That or those drugs. Or both! Say you can wipe out all invasive species, and keep the lake clear of them. What happens when you die?  Unlike Dr. Frankenstein I will not even consider making you a wife. You’re an abomination! The transhumanists would love you, but they’re a crazy left-coast minority. Trying to get you out of here would be a fiasco.’
    ‘I thought you would understand. Professor Moore? How will you explain the numbers?’
    ‘
    Moore sped off to find the survey’s other boat, calling them on his handheld radio.
    The next day Moore went out by himself and brought a speargun. The boat was capsized, but they never saw the lake thing. For a while after that there were reports of unexplained capsizings.
Specific Plot Outline:
Paul and Beth's relationship has gone stale. They argue about the quality and quantity of time spent together, like most couples do. Story starts well into the party, after all the characters have arrived and had some drinks. In the kitchen, making drinks, they talk about how they drink a lot together in social settings. Lindy introduces Spencer. The four talk about people they know. Outside, smoking a cigarette, they talk about the outdoorsy stuff they do together. Spencer and Beth discover they have a mutual interest in hiking, which she loves but Paul doesn't much care for. Beth has been trying to get Paul to do specific event that Spencer says sounds awesome. Paul bristles, Kevin backs him up. Inside, in the pot smoking circle, all characters present now, they talk about the inside-stuff they do together: movies, music, homework, sex. Brent and Kristine show example of couple agreeing on things. Once blunt is done Paul and Beth are still arguing, everyone else leaves to watch a movie in the other room. They resolve their differences, for now, and go join their friends.


"How much longer does your quarter last?"
"Until the first week in June."
"So you still have, what, three more weeks?"
"Two and a half; finals are only on Monday and Tuesday here."
"Wait, for the whole school?"
"Yeah, we only take like three classes per quarter, remember?"

"I wish you could come visit me but my parents are crazy, like I said."
"Yeah, I understand. I live in the Midwest, remember? At least you're in the Bay Area."
"The suburbs of Berkeley barely count. I get into the city when I can."
"Sounds familiar, except there isn't much to do in my city."
"Oh I am sure there is, you just have to know people."
"Right."

"I think I fall outside heteronormative gender constructions." "Whoa, hello academic parlance. Sounds like you've learned something at liberal arts school."

"I'm post-racial." Laughing, "No you're not. You're still pretty fucking white."
Last lines:
Should you go in the back? the mom asks
I think that's what she said. the daughter (Azrael or some more common variative) replies
"Azrael" by Jimmy Koppen
    I am late. Walking from the bus stop, towards Union Station, hungover, starving, I fear I will miss my ride home to Kansas City. Walk fast. I woke up in a strange bed. Now I wear a backpack stuffed to the seams and smell like unwashed sex. I pass a McDonald's and two greeters stand outside the door. I expect them to hail me for a breakfast sandwich. I decide if they do I will go in and get something and run. They don't; just look at me. Once I am past, glad for the moment that I will not be eating their fast food on a hungover stomach, one of them says:
    "Looks like a baby John Lennon."
    I glance back; there's no one else around. He must have been talking about me. I smile a little. I always identified more with George Harrison. I decide to take it as a compliment anyway.
    By the time I reach Union Station I'm late by five minutes. I have been checking the time on my phone now and then. Two distinctive Megabus vehicles idle outside the Station. I run up and see one headed for Ohio and the other to Michigan.
    I stand in front of Union Station in Chicago waiting for a bus that will take me back to Kansas City. I don't know if one will come or if I missed it. I am hungry and hungover and I don't want to move for fear and lack of energy. I don't know what to do. So I just stand and wait.
    I look down at my phone. Bus is thirty minutes late. Maybe I could call someone and get some help. Phone's dead.
    The sidewalk is crowded. People smoke around me. I watch a few people bum cigarettes but can’t bring myself to do the same. I want to leave to find food but not as much as I want to catch the bus home. The Ohio and Michigan buses were boarding for well over five minutes, so I figure my bus is just late. That McDonald's was way too far back for me to feel comfortable making the trip.
    A dad and his son approach me.
    "Waiting for the Megabus?" dad says.
    "Yeah," I say.
    "Where ya headed?"
    "Kansas City. My bus is forty-five minutes late."
    "Oh, that's no good. Well, my son and I are headed back to Memphis."
    "Memphis just pulled up." I point to the bus farther down the street, opposite the direction from which they approached me. There's a bus to Wisconsin on the street closer to us.
    "Oh great. We've never taken one of these things before."
    "They're nice."
    "You just show them your print-out and bring your bags on?"
    "Yeah, they have overhead bins and a big compartment under the bus."
    "Great. Well, thanks for the info."
    "Uh huh. Have a nice trip."
    "You too."
    I am glad they're gone. Much more small talk and I would have thrown up on them.
    A woman and her son stop next to me. The kid has a fresh bag of McDonald’s and the smell of french fries intensifies my hunger pangs. The kid’s mom lights a cigarette. My stomach prods me with a twinge of nausea. I squirm inside my skin. The woman finishes her cigarette and goes inside, the munching, preoccupied child following her. I am not hungry anymore.
    Now my bus is nearly an hour late, and I feel too weak to move, even to take off my backpack. Buses to Wisconsin and Memphis have just left, much to the relief of the police officers trying to regulate traffic. Families dropping off loved ones have been told sternly to move along several times.
    An old man comes appears in my peripheral vision. He's too close to me. I lean away and turn my head to get a better look at him. He has just come out of Union Station and wears a brown coat and cap. His neck twists away from me and backwards a little; I can't see his face even though his body is in profile. I take a step back, repelled by his grotesque neck contortions. He holds plastic grocery bags and a leather knapsack over his shoulder. I can't decide whether he is homeless or not. He shuffles further out onto the sidewalk in an aimless way.
    I look down the street hoping to spot my bus and think I see the top of it two blocks away. I almost finish a curse on Megabus before the old man captures my attention again. He is now in front of me with no one between us. I see his face for the first time; a long string of drool hangs from the corner of his mouth. I look away. He hobbles to my left. Watching a cop directing traffic, I hear a low groan coming from the old man.  By the time I turn back towards him the groan has become a hoarse, chilling rattle.  His murky blue eyes grow wider and I realize he is looking at me, without focus.  He looks startled, scared. He drops like a gnarled tree cut down in a forest.  I hear a thud that makes me cringe. He twitches and convulses into a fetal position.
    I’m shaken but I make no sound.  Two cops appear and take control of the situation, shooing the first woman who came to help.
    "But I'm a nurse!"
    "Ma'am, please do not interfere."
    The word seizure floats through the crowd.  Everyone goes back to waiting, with the occasional glance at the old man.  My bus arrives just before the fire trucks and ambulance.  I walk to the bus feeling like death.
Time and Space, Transcendent
 
Kant's Critique of Pure Reason tries to answer unresolved philosophical questions and reframes the discussion in the process. This process includes restating his ideas every time he adds further explanation. Complex sentences make his ideas harder to understand, though after multiple readings and deconstructive underlinings they become clearer. I could do without the excessive qualifiers and semicolons in the midst of subordinate phrases. Kant is at least conscious that his work will not be perceived by all in the same way. In his language, “as to the intuitions of other thinking beings, we cannot judge whether they are or are not bound by the same conditions which limit our own intuition” (p.26; Of Space, Conclusions, 2).
 
Space and time are two forms of intuition which are common to all thinking beings. Kant's Transcendental Aesthetic begins his Critique by saying that space and time are “subjectively” or “empirically real,” but transcendentally “ideal.” By this Kant means that they have no objective validity outside of the human subject. They don’t belong to objects as things in themselves, but are foundations of cognition through which the human subject experiences.
 
Kant’s major breakthrough is to separate philosophy and metaphysics. Metaphysics purports to deal with what is true, without qualification. Kant recognized that we cannot come to any conclusion in metaphysics. He qualifies his philosophy carefully; indeed making the limits of the truth of what he is saying an integral part of his philosophy as a whole. By limiting his scope, he is able to make stronger, less refutable points.
 
Kant doesn’t concern himself with objective validity in the Transcendental Aesthetic. He focuses on space and time and the question of what they are. They seem to him a priori, but he recognizes that this is a contentious point. He says that the conceptions of time and space cannot be derived from experience and are therefore a priori. Sensuous experience would not be possible without these a priori conceptions.
 
He begins his discussions of space and time with what he calls a metaphysical exposition of the conception. Here he explains his views in metaphysical terms, asserting his beliefs without providing evidence rooted in experience or thought experiment. Then he moves to a transcendental exposition, which couches his arguments in terms that may lead to the creation of additional conceptions.
 
Objects do not have space and time in-and-of-themselves, but rather inhabit space and time as phenomena. A phenomenon is a thing as it appears, coming to us through sensuous intuitions. We experience sensations as distinct from one another in space. Time allows us to have sensations in an order. Without an innate sense of time we could not distinguish between things happening concurrently and things which happen at different times. Time allows for motion, through which objects inhabit different places.
 
"This ideality [. . .] is not to be proved or illustrated by fallacious analogies with sensations [because they] make the presupposition that the phenomenon in which such and such predicates inhere, has objective reality, while in this case we can only find such an objective reality as is itself empirical, that is regards the object as a mere phenomenon" (p.32; Of Time, Conclusions, 3).

For Kant intuitions are not “properties of things, but only changes in the subject, changes which may be different in different men.” Time is what keeps everything from happening all at once.
 
“Of time we cannot have any external intuition, any more than we can have an internal intuition of space” (23, Of Space, Metaphysical Exposition).
 
Kant ventures to prove the transcendental ideality of time and space by basing geometry in synthetic a priori judgment. He does not presuppose phenomena, that is, does not use analogies related to a posteriori sensations in his proofs. Instead he asks the reader to consider that geometry is based not on empirical evidence but on assertions, which people recognize as true or not based on a priori concepts.
 
Kant’s main example used to assert synthetic a priori judgments and prove the transcendental ideality of time and space is rooted in geometry. He asks the reader to consider two straight lines, and asks how we know that no enclosed figure can be made from them. Even considering three straight lines, the triangle which they form is not implicit in their line-ness. Analytically, three lines and triangle are not contained within the idea of each other, but the triangle follows synthetically, through a horizontal connection, with the three lines. The subject must think the triangle. Unlike a vertical connection that can be made for analytical truths. Geometry is not based in empirical evidence. For even without a pen and paper with which to make concrete such ideas, the ideas exist and make sense a priori in the mind. We have already in our minds the stuff with which we form our reality. Innate faculties.
 
Time and space are transcendentally ideal because there can only be one of each. There are not separate times and spaces for each person. Though each person may perceive differently the pure intuition is the same for everyone, allowing for time and space to be referred to commonly and intelligibly by all. Madness or brain chemicals may change these perceptions, the reality of time and space for someone, but ideally they are always the same at base. Time and space still transcend any one individual’s reality. Time and space are empirically real because they underlie all experience. Right now you are reading this essay and time passes with every word you read. You recognize the paper, the lines and words on the paper, as separate because you perceive them as being in space. We have empirical evidence for this from our senses.
 
But say you take a drug. Say that the effects cause you to stop perceiving space and time as real. You just exist along with everything, in the teeming void. This is far from our everyday reality. If you were to stay in this state it would be safe to call you dead. In the everyday world, you might be taking up space, not moving, or perhaps unconsciously moving around. The world would go on around you. Probably your empirical sensations would be surreal. Motion gives us the strongest sense for time and space, empirically. Time and space would warp and slow down. Still, there would be time and space, transcending whatever weird trip you were on, returning to normal once the drug wore off.
 
Time, transcendentally, is uniform. It does not speed up or slow down like it does empirically.
Koppen 1
Together Alone
"Now I have to live, because I am alone and nothing can hurt me any more." (Klein 95)
    Gerda Weissmann says this to herself as she heads to Sosnowitz on a train with other girls from her town. She thinks of her family from whom she has just been separated. There is a weird logic behind the above statement. She knows she will probably never see her parents and brother again, though she hopes and dreams otherwise. This causes her overwhelming emotional pain, so intense that she feels nothing after she pierces her palm with a piece of glass. She decides to live for her family, whether to be with them if they survive or to avenge them if they die. So, she must live, alone, for the sake of others. If "nothing can hurt" her anymore, that implies a kind of death. The lack of physical pain from the glass wound underscores this. After her separation from her family, with whom she was so intimate and close, she has become a ghost whose only purpose is to reconnect with her body and become whole again.
   People are, by nature, social animals. However, thanks to the intellect developed through evolving as a social animal, people can choose solitude or impose solitude on others. Gerda Weissmann Klein's All But My Life not only tells her own story but the story of her family, and the stories of those whom she met as she struggled to survive in Nazi labor camps. Through her the stories of many have been saved for future generations. She lived as a social animal, undignified save for that dignity given to her by those who shared her predicament. The Nazis, though they acted as a group, had a philosophy of solitude. They were superior, the master race, the only ones worthy of humanity. Thus they excluded others through ideology and violence. They were deluded by the promise of power in the midst of their crippling weakness. But they changed the course of history for all people.
    As her ordeal progressed, Gerda built a new family from her relationships with friends. Sadly, none of them survived to enjoy liberation. But one of her liberators courts her as she recovers, and they eventually create their own family together.
    "Out of life's school of war: What does not destroy me, makes me stronger" (Nietzsche M&A 8).
    Nietzsche would have admired the Nazis' warlike spirit even if he would have laughed at their ideology. He would have admired Gerda more. Nazism was born more out of resentment than through an unconscious exercise of power. The consciousness of Nazism was one of isolation among peers -- alone in Europe with a heavy burden of reparations to be paid and a desolated economy, leaving the government vulnerable to populist tyrants like Hitler. Nietzsche did not much believe that morality was a choice but rather more of a natural consequence of fitness, in a vaguely socially Darwinist way.
    Gerda cites many instances and reasons for her survival, most of which are out of her control. She gives credit to her father, who told her to wear her ski boots before they were separated and taken to camps. He also made her promise him that she would not commit suicide, which saves her from doing so in a couple instances. She buys poison with a piece of jewelry she got from her mother to avoid further losing her dignity in the instance that she is shipped off to entertain sick German soldiers, but never even considers that she might use the poison as a weapon. She takes the moral high ground consistently, choosing not to fight back. When a soldier physically assaults her she gives way to despair for one of the few times throughout her ordeal. Ilse gives her a raspberry she found which cheers Gerda. This is their true strength, their ability to share with each other and act selflessly. The selfish Nazi worldview did not encourage such acts, though not all Nazis were so callous.
    The Jews were a step outside mainstream Christian European life, making them an ideal scapegoat when things stayed sour in Germany after the Great War. Word of mouth testimony, the very kind Freud notes is so prone to inaccuracy in his The Future of an Illusion, had Jews as inhuman golem-animating evil-doers, immigrants who fled from the Romans and Arabs to lands those groups could barely touch. Often the Jews were bourgeois, owning the means to production or the capital used by debtors. As Jews looked and acted differently, and these differences were quite often overblown, the colonialist mindset which considered Africans and Asians inferior naturally adapted itself to Jews.
     Jews lived behind a Veil during Nazi times, like that of the African Americans in USA. The veil seems too weak a metaphor for the situation of the Jews in Nazi Europe, however, as their state more resembled Africans in slavery, with masters even more abusive and indeed bent on their eventual destruction. The Jews lost their property, their freedom, their ability to participate in political life.  The Nazis didn't view the Jews as people as such and so even if they believed in the ideas of Locke they did not apply them against their own genocidal ideas. 
    In the present day, though, we see in Gerda great strength and humanity. She shows herself to be smart, tough, and passionate. Often her imagination, her ability to look beyond her current circumstances, allows her to survive. She plays games with her friends, pretending to be back living in comfortable circumstances, with family and suitors and all. She allows nature's beauty to transport her and fill her with hope, like a true Romantic. After dragging a body into the woods she notes the beauty of the pines and the clear air and the crisp snow. As she marches to the factory at Grünberg she notices the beauty of the tulips and roses, constructing marvelous similes in her head as she passes.
    Then, perhaps, Descartes' cogito ergo sum holds the key to Gerda's survival. Gerda spends so much time in her own head, thinking, processing what horrors she sees but maintaining a certain distance from them. She dreams of reuniting with her family, with little to suggest that she will never see them again. These dreams keep from total despair, which would make her unable to work and worthy of Auschwitz to her captors who believe she's only good for what labor her body can do in their beautiful modern crystal palace of a factory. She does not even succumb to the melancholy, the lofty suffering, of the Underground Man, isolating herself from others through words to feel superior. She shares her energy with her friends as one of their body. Her empathy with others is so strong, a fellow prisoner's being assaulted in the showers causes her to vomit.
    Virginia Woolf says solitude and steady income are required to produce works of genius. Gerda might not be a genius, but she surely earned alone time to write thanks to her own efforts. She also had an extraordinary and moving story to tell, which someone cannot develop through consistent solitude.
    As above, so below. There's our assumption, simplified, operating in Flatland, "They're made of Meat," and to a lesser degree "Seeing in Four Dimensions." Orienting these relatives is a tricky business. Powers don't want their holdings to be thought of as below anyone or anything but themselves so that no one can think beyond them. At least that's what Abbott seems to suggest in Flatland. As long as we deal in microcosms no one is threatened. Macrocosmic processes, attributes, representations, mere possibilities can scare people thoughtless. Why else is "They're made out of Meat" considered humor? Can't offend anybody's anthropocentrism too much or the story won't take and maybe a grudge will instead. Because Bisson's story can be depressing if taken too seriously or literally. In the story humanity is rejected from intergalactic society because of the way we evolved, how we each were born, of what we're composed -- something over which we have no control. And that smarts.
    We can try to perceive beyond our received faculties, like the mathematicians in France or our square narrator in Flatland, and at best we have glimmers, dreams, and imperfect representations. Like in Bisson's story, we are in the dark beyond our three dimensional solid realm, perhaps able to hear chatter from beyond if not recognize and make sense of it. For good reason Bisson gives no exposition about the conversing aliens.
    Nevertheless we try to represent our imaginings and formulate the laws which govern our universe and multitudinous matter. Science, philosophy, religion: all speak to the mind beyond immediate perception. Indeed, our square narrator must "evangelize," "proclaim," and "teach" the "theory," "heresy," "revelation" and "sedition" of the Third Dimension. This diverse vocabulary speaks to the barriers to and difficulties of introducing outlandish ideas for the purposes of truth. The second unidentified alien speaker in Bisson's story plays the part of the psyche and society which is conservative and fearful. A voice necessary to keep out potentially harmful ideas. Or even just -- like sentient meat to probing aliens -- ideas that are simply not worth the time.
    Considering this skeptical light, science fiction plays a strange role in our society. What cultural work does it do? Quite simply, it may be like the square, the first alien speaker, and the mathematician -- trying to expand our sense of possibility, change the way we think -- for what purpose, for better or worse, who says?
Laws of Futurics:
1. What is happening will continue to happen. OR What has happened in the past will happen in the future.
2. Consider the obvious seriously, for few people will see it.
3. Consider the consequences.
Kinda elitist, aren’t we Asimov
4) Consider the discomforting.
 
Hazards of Prophecy:
Failures of nerve and failures of motivation
Clarke’s Law - when a distinguished but elderly scientist states that something is possible, he is almost certainly right. When he states that something is impossible, he is very probably wrong.
“The real future is not logically foreseeable.”
Some advances are foreseeable, others aren’t as they’re a consequence of experimental discoveries
 
Gunn
EXTRAPOLATION
heavier-than-air machine
 
LOTS OF NON FICTION GAH boring
 
Inventiveness shifts from Africa and Europe to Middle East and China and then back again and then globalized
Falsification rule isn’t sufficient for separating science and psuedo-science
    The future is full of unknowns, known and unknown. Science fiction writers speculate about the future for fun and profit, and in the process become quite good at prediction. Consider the obvious, because most people won't see it, says Asimov. Old scientists are almost always wrong about what is impossible, says Clarke. Writers of science fiction, then, needs to challenge the status quo, to embrace change within their stories. To write meaningful science fiction, Asimov's unofficial fourth rule of futurics - Consider the discomforting - seems most important. To write any meaningful story the protagonist must endure conflict, whether they change or not. Like Hari Seldon, sci-fi writers must extrapolate some discomforting development and then have their protagonist get into some trouble where the futuristic development plays a key role. Maybe a new gadget saves the day; maybe a new gadget causes problems for the protagonist; maybe a new gadget has changed the protagonist's world and broken some established system in society.
    "The future is not logically foreseeable," says Clarke. But Asimov says that "What is happening will continue to happen." The sci-fi writer must balance these two axioms to create a recognizable or at least plausible world where some condition of life has changed. The introduction of or to the unknown causes conflict. While I can't logically foresee nuclear fusion becoming a viable source of power in my lifetime, perhaps I am wrong -- and what a change that development would cause.
    But that thought alone does not make a story. For a story needs a sympathetic protagonist. Hari Seldon could not be the protagonist of "The Psychohistorians" -- he's too cool and the revelation that he has planned for his exile doesn't surprise. So Asimov has to give the reader Gaal Dornick, the provincial mathematician who doesn't know what he's getting into. Gaal, like most people, assumes Asimov's First Law but, unlike most of us, is forced to consider the obvious and, in time, the consequences of his situation. He acts as the reader's avatar (couldn't resist...) in the story, as Asimov reveals to the reader the discomforting but ancient truth of the rise and fall of civilizations through his scientific Seldon.
    We sympathize with Gaal because he finds himself in an uneviable position. Like most of us, he wants to do his job and leave his work at his desk. All this non-fiction -- the history of technological progress especially -- makes me yearn for some more entertainment. But at this point I am too uncomfortable to lap up fiction. Now I'm thinking about how the stories we imbibe affect us. How we talk about them with our friends, imitate our favorite characters, and spend what leftover money we earn while not being entertained on entertainment. Even the news weaves meaningful narratives to explain complex phenomena whose effects ripple through civilization and might otherwise seem mysterious, and perhaps in fact are mysterious. Perhaps thanks to the web, all such stories seem like useful tools, like the computer I'm typing at right now. In reality, we're part of a hugely complex system that our brains struggle to comprehend. Stories allow us to navigate and manipulate that system, limited though we are. For me, the most important invention in history is language. When will something that monumental develop again?

    Our focus this week is on the brain. More specifically, what happens when we mess with the brain, through drugs or advertising or technology. The Personal Systems in "Norbert and the System" are a speculative brain augmentation technology, but in the text bear close resemblance to consciousness, or the Queen according to the metaphor in "Second Person, Present Tense." We already have Personal Computers, which I am currently using to type this response and which most people in the technologically saturated societies use every day. When a person learns to use a tool the brain treats the tool much like an organ or limb. In her Cyborg Manifesto, Donna Haraway argues that therefore many people are already cyborgs. Proficiency with these tools modifies the way we interact with our world and even changes our biology, physiology, neurochemistry, etc. Curiously, despite the near universality of tools and proficiency with them, what seems to make us human in all the stories has to do with deviation from this and other norms. To be human requires an identity, a unique self.
    The issue, though, seems to be the malleability of the self. In Ballard's melancholy "Subliminal Man," Dr. Franklin eventually becomes enslaved by advertisements which implant subconscious desires that drive his actions in a hyper-consumerist world. Esaias's world in "Norbert" is similarly consumerist -- people address one another as "Shopper" -- but people maintain individuality to a degree. The difference seems to lie in libido, as Norbert publishes the idea of and uses the off-switch to deal with his dating woes. On the other hand, Dr. Franklin's only dealings with his wife are financial. Norbert has a healthy sense of self, though he changes with his PS upgrade, while Dr. Franklin loses personality and becomes a consuming machine once his subversive friend Hathaway dies trying to take down a subconscious-manipulating sign.
    While in Ballard and Esaias' stories the consumer culture acts on characters' brains, Daryl Gregory's story "Second Person, Present Tense" deals with the effects of drugs and religion in constructing the self. I felt most personally involved in this story because I have had a similar experience -- too many trips, hospitalization, and subsequent readjustment as a strange person in a familiar body. Leading up to this break was strong interest in Buddhist philosophy. I have since learned, like Terry, that here in the Christian West we are expected to maintain a self, cultivate our identity, and that innocence - how close our personality remains to a primordial idealized childhood sense of self - is fetishized. Terry deals with her situation admirably by asserting herself, exercising her will.
    The question of free will seems strange to a Buddhist, because the self is an illusion. However, like in other religious philosophy's, Buddhism encourages right action, and so assumes the illusory self make conscious choices. William James said "My first act of free will shall be to believe in free will." I agree: the question is a tedious philosophical quagmire. Perhaps I believe in restricted will. As in, freedom within certain bounds. What those bounds are, I'll leave to neuroscientists.
So,
Start with the story of Angie, the nerdy girl who reads too much, the Chihuahua lover, horse obsessed, the religious girl, whose hair was falling out due to a rare condition but who all the girls and mouthy boys were saying was pulling her hair out like a mad possessed witch. Mission is to humiliate Angie. Need to show why I would take such a mission in the first place, so show Jessica being mean to me. Succeed in humiliation, watch her reaction. And end with Medugorje, the question of the pictures and the crisis of faith and ponderance of religion that was hidden and swept underneath a love for violence and politics.

FICTIONALIZE FUCKTONALLEYES
Mockery as a gift
MAOR INFO off the bat
She had a venom tongue and her hair was falling out. People said she was pulling it out and I believed them. She was crazy and no one liked her because she was mean back. I didn’t blame her but joined in the fun. I drew a comic book pane of her beloved chihuahuas dead and bloody by the hand of a masked assailant with her standing by crying "my babies" or something. It was popular but afterward I felt like there was something wrong with me.

In middle-school people were still cruel but I realized I didn’t know enough to be mean. We were just making up stories at each other, creating drama where there need be and would be and was none. I realized I could give people the benefit of the doubt, create stories that made sense where they were good, like they did in their heads and I in mine. We could create something greater and better out of that mutual respect and understanding that followed from the good stories we invented but constantly revised. -- Make this drivel into a line for Angie. "Can't you make up a nice story about me?"

Just because you've written something like this before and had success doesn't mean you have to stick to it. You're not getting paid, you're getting graded. Take a risk. Do what you want.

Maybe we can’t get out but hope makes the flames seem farther away, more an illusion than an inevitable eternity. Even if we invent gods will our technologies play along?
"Go to Hell" by James Koppen

In Miss Higgs' fifth grade classroom Jess was losing her hair. We in Mrs Randall's class were switching rooms to learn math and science when I first heard about Jess's problem. She sat at pod one near the door. During switch no one wanted to sit at her desk. No one knew why she was pulling out clumps of hair but based on the whispering about her I didn't want to get near. Our teachers supervised from their doorways and we kept our comments low while Jess in quiet tears walked close to the wall clutching her binder.

"Pulled out a bunch of hair," someone said.
"Freak."
"Still some on the floor."
"Gross."
"I bet someone in one of her books pulled out their hair."
"Crazy bitch."
Halfway down the hall, Jess turned around:
"SHUT UP, you stupid bastards!"
"Jess!" said Mrs Randall, "watch your language and calm down."
Jess started crying harder and made sounds that failed to make words.
I was just outside Miss Higgs' door, a mute observer surrounded by a few gigglers and gaspers. Two girls who sat at pod one during switch were pointing and making disgusted sounds at the hair on the floor.
"Get inside, you stragglers," Miss Higgs said.
Last I saw, Mrs Randall was pointing down the hall to the principal's office.

Jess was the snobbiest of Vianney Catholic School. All she talked about were her horse, her chihuahuas, and whatever book she was reading. She had an enviable vocabulary and could insult as well as anyone else in class. 
"You godless heathen, I bet you don't even have a patron saint."
She got away with more too, because she was a suck up.
"Mrs Randall, shouldn't you always pray to your guardian angel before you go to bed?"
And she always had the answers, especially in religion.
"What is the Immaculate Conception?"
"When the Virgin Mary was born without original sin!"
The teachers treated Jess like an angel.

When I was in kindergarten I saw a documentary about people who had seen angels. Kids and adults talked of receiving special messages and going on tours of heaven. The scenes described were dramatized with special effects, like images of clouds and angels speaking in far-away voices. An angel told one sleepy kid that her mother would soon die and go to heaven and so not to despair. That night I was so scared that right after my parents turned off the lights I shut my eyes tight until I went to sleep. Angels could not appear to me if I could not see them.

So, I tried to ignore Jess, too. I maintained my ignorance until the sixth grade, when we were in the same homeroom. By now Jess was bald and wore a Tommy Hilfiger hat. 

To get in on the fun made of Jess, I turned to my doodling prowess. I drew a comic book pane of her beloved chihuahuas dead and bloody by the hand of a masked assailant with her standing by crying "my babies!" I showed the comic to my podmates. Hilarious.
"Show it to her!"
"No." I was sure to get in trouble.
 She found out anyway. I just ignored her. That seemed to hurt her worse and she got quieter and quieter. Her absences became more frequent.

She was gone for a week and I thought she had left for good. But she had gone on a pilgrimage to the Balkans with her family. She came back with pictures that all the teachers hailed as miraculous. When she was there some nuns had a vision of the Virgin Mary appearing above the town. Jess had pointed her camera at the spot where the nuns said they saw Mary and took pictures. In the developed pictures the Virgin appeared as she always did in our books, arms outstretched. The pictures seemed real, passed around by the teachers as evidence our faith was justified. I didn’t believe it. Could someone as bitter and mean as Jessica be blessed with such a revelation? It was too unreal, too beautiful and divine and perfect. She must have faked them somehow to win favor. My mom and other family members had been to the same place and didn’t bring back miraculous pictures. What made her so special? There had been a war there, in the Balkans, a genocidal war, the kind of thing that fascinated me as an eleven year old. Hell on earth. 
"Cyborg writing is about the power to survive, not on the basis of original innocence, but on the basis of seizing the tools to mark the world that marked them as other."

So, are we all cyborgs then? A cyborg is just anyone? YES.! then, so what?

The postmodern distinction centers Haraway's argument; must I accept it or need I limit my scope? What is my argument? Does Haraway have one?

Drugs in sci-fi as a model for cyborgization. Issues of addiction, unintended side effects, societal control and subversion.

How does one construct a self as a cyborg, where physical boundaries blur and our actions change depending on the chemicals in our bodies and gadgets we have access to use? In what ways is personal agency enhanced and inhibited? What is the difference between self and identity? How can we characterize identity, the self, in such a world? 

What about the Amish? They have wooden implements, clothes, and alcohol.

need an Exemplary hook: having to do with drug addiction, agency, all tying into the concept of the cyborg. A narrative, a myth, not a metanarrative. Specificity!

 "The cyborg is a condensed image of both imagination and material reality" (Haraway). 

single humans as neurons in the collective mind...

The issue of drug abuse has been turned into a war, tied into many political and moral and social issues. Addiction, habituation, the distinction between use and abuse are a matter of life and death.

Psychology <---> Neurochemistry <---> Physiology

Biblioextras:
BLTC!?
PKD?! Reference in passing, perhaps the obvious Substance D of A Scanner Darkly
Cyborg Selves
    "The cyborg is a kind of disassembled and reassembled, postmodern collective and personal self" (Haraway). Throw out "kind of" and "postmodern" and we have a functional, symmetrical definition. Haraway includes "postmodern" in order to break this symmetry, as the word implies the absence of over-arching collectivity, symmetry, or universality. A cyborg self amalgamates disparate elements to solidify and influence the surrounding chaotic world.
    We have always been amalgamations, cyborgs of sorts, interwoven with our environments. On a very basic level, we need food and water to metabolize and turn into physical movements and verbalizations. Modern humans consume much more than the basic necessities of survival, however. We wear clothes that are made in factories. We require shelter, filled with appliances that rely on electricity and gas. 
     Technological gadgets, separate object such as smart phones, have also become a part of ourselves. My friend without his iPhone lacks a certain resourcefulness. If he had to rely only on his own wits and recall, he would crippled. In his science fiction story "Norbert and the System," Timons Esaias extrapolates on this concept and writes a world where people rely on Personal Systems, neural interfaces that query the General System, and internet of sorts, for information and control moods with chemicals. A few among us already rely on similar systems: Steven Mann, a modern-day cyborg, had his PS taken off by airport security in 2002 and experienced dizziness, sickness, and physical debilitation once separated from his kit (Guernsey).
    Similarly, a smoker would suffer and find himself scatterbrained and unable to operate in his normal way without nicotine. Drugs, and consumption in general, are a moral issue in part because of the possibility of addiction. On a societal level, pundits often speak of oil addiction and the negative effects of our reliance on this substance. Another issue surrounding drugs is their ability to alter identity and sense of self. In Daryl Gregory's "Second Person, Present Tense," the protagonist Terry finds herself without an infant sense of identity after an overdose of the fictional drug Z. Her parents, friends, and the entire social edifice she grew into must cope with her changed identity, though her body remains the same.
    Drugs have always engendered conflict. As they can alter identity, the subject of their use is a cultural battleground. We must cultivate a self to operate and justify our physical separateness. Once we add an exogenous agent to our bloodstreams, we sacrifice some of our autonomy. Depending on the chemical imbibed, I become a stimulated me, a besotted me, instead of just myself. I am considered a separate manifestation of myself, given slack by my peers.
    With both drugs and technology, the body adapts to the exogenous mechanism. The physiology expects caffeine or nicotine or alcohol, and without it operates differently. For the weekending college partier, a bar or house party without alcohol becomes decidedly and self-consciously bizarre. Such contexts utilize a different section of our identity, which catalyzes under the influence. A computer programmer could not program without a computer, which requires electricity, and increasingly, the internet. Case, the protagonist of William Gibson's Neuromancer, leads a life that tempts death, having been expertly crippled so that he can no longer access cyberspace. He swallows his octagonal amphetamine pills with reckless abandon, leading to paranoia and unnecessary conflict. 
     How do we construct a self then, in this complex world with many fuzzy boundaries? We must put stock in our experience of the world, and use our prefrontal cortex, key to planning and pattern construction, to predict the future based on the past. Observing ourselves we develop certain feedback loops, neurochemically and psychologically (Corlett, et al). Norbert, after using the off-switch for his PS which he receive on a suggestion which made him famous, becomes disoriented. Without constant suggestion and pharmaceutical injection from his PS, he acts differently. Similarly, the smoker expects certain effects from smoking: calm, clarity, bowel movements. Implicitly, then, a lack of smoking brings befuddlement, nervousness, and constipation.
   Our waste must be shipped to landfills. Even making consumable products produces waste with which must be dealt. In India, a pharmaceutical plant dumps waste into a local river, polluting drinking water for the local population. When antibiotics build up in local bloodstreams, the possibility of drug-resistant bacteria development becomes a real and serious health issue, especially in a world where international travel is simply a matter of sufficient capital. Not to mention the bizarre health effects on the local population (Manaugh).
    A society, a civilization, requires similarity, a subjugation of individuation and differential creation. Large populations require conformity for management. Utilities and services are like the organs of society. Feedback systems. Suppy and demand. Individuals who do not conform serve as sacrifices and examples, martyrs. The unwitting Indian pharmacological cyborgs concern us because the consequences of their changed biologies are unknown, the realm of speculation. They will be different, but how exactly?
    "The cyborg is a condensed image of both imagination and material reality" (Haraway). Imagine a world, as Aldous Huxley did in Brave New World, where citizens are controlled through the drug soma and highly immersive entertainment. If you take anti-depressants or mood-stabilizers and enjoy the movie Avatar, there is not much of an imaginative leap to make.
    "Cyborg writing is about the power to survive, not on the basis of original innocence, but on the basis of seizing the tools to mark the world that marked them as other" (Haraway). Then, whether or not a person is a cyborg may be simply a matter of semantics and consumption habits. I am a cyborg. Are you?
Notes and excised bits from mental hospital:
Need to narrow the scope, focus on one conflict; the ward itself can still be a character, but the place must inform the conflict...
Beth was by the door out with her parents, saying goodbyes. 
Beth's parents sign off on ECT
Beth crying 
Mike tries to comfort her, nurse isn't having it, Drew tries to get nurse to leave them alone and get's belligerant and someone restrains him and injects him with something.


STORY IDEA UNRELATED: chronicle a night where protag plays the silent observer, communicando con body language grunts facial expressions

The mission: buy psychedelic drugs.

facebook message

walk

hang and talk -- thizz dance and world of warcraft

outside, short, pissed dude walks

    Reading Neuromancer for the second time, I was even more fascinated. The details of texture, fabric, material, little objects, colors, free-associative juxtapositions bring the book to life. The book is not too long but manages to incorporate many great ideas, from the psychedelic realm of cyberspace to the gritty streets of Night City to a megalopolis Atlantic seaboard to the fabricated Disneyland of Freeside, parks on top of skyscrapers. Even before coming to class, The Matrix and Blade Runner have been brought up as comparison points by my peers. A few seem unsympathetic to Case, Molly, Armitage, Riviera, the Finn, and all the other thieves, low-lifes and has-beens that populate Gibson's vision. However, the richness of their characters makes up for their flaws in my eyes. Gibson does seem to have too many ideas to develop fully, and so instead he went a more avant garde route in order to weave a beautiful neon tapestry. I wouldn't have it any other way, but perhaps I'm too much a fan.
    Gibson's world is ruled by zaibatsus, multi-nationals which operate among and beyond governments after a war that made Europe into a post-apocalyptic wasteland. We get the sense of a nevertheless hierarchical world, but while Case starts the book down and out he soon gets a second chance from an artificial intelligence with a personal agenda.
    No such luck for the protagonist of "Have Not Have," who has enough advantages to make a living but barely maintains her precarious position. She, like Case, like most of us, relies heavily on the work of others, on appropriating ideas for her own use as the village fashion expert. The author, a white man with an agenda, doesn't develop his characters all that well and ends up working with near caricatures. Luckily I am also a white man and wasn't too terribly offended, but I think he might have made his point another way, by writing what he knows. However, the point seemed to be that the introduction of new technology, particularly information technology, changes the economic landscape, forcing people to change how they make their livelihoods. Old story.
    Robot ethics is a newer story, one the author for the BBC doesn't seem to take seriously enough to give a full treatment. Maybe his audience wouldn't read one, though. Robot ethics have been pretty well explored in Robocop and Terminator movies, among others, much more accessible to the modern mind. Once we need to worry about artificially intelligent robots harming humans, the laws of robotics shouldn't be an issue to hardwire. Until then, drones, remotely controlled robots, have all ready been unveiled and used in combat, too controversial success.

    I must start by admitting that I only read Part I of Kurzweil's The Age of Spiritual Machines. Much of the material I was familiar with, such as Moore's Law and what Kurzweil framed as the Law of Time and Chaos. However, I found his exploration of the development of artificial intelligence illuminating and fascinating, filling in gaps in my knowledge. I did not know that facial recognition software and evolutionary algorithms had been implemented to the extent he explains in 1999. Does my ATM scan my face every time I visit, I wonder? I read that computer trading contributed to much of the recent recession, echoing Kurzweil's note on the crash of 1987. Soon the stock market will mean even less to your average person than currently, if evolutionary algorithms and neural nets far and away outperform human traders. Maybe that will be positive.
    Or not, if pessimistic accounts like Harlan Ellison's "I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream" are any more than nightmares. What an excruciating read. More horror than science fiction, the ideas therein explored being rooted in Cold War paranoia that has largely passed and mutated into new fears. Terminator and other pop culture explorations of possible AI takeovers never quite go so far and the human good guys win in the end, so somewhat castrating serious mass fear of artificial intelligence. Exploration of uploading for the mass audience seems to have just started, though, again thanks to James Cameron in Avatar.
    Ian Creasey's "Cut Loose the Bonds of Flesh and Bone" explores uploading in a bit more prosaic light, less appealing to spectacle and psychedelic possibility and more to emotion and the desire to transcend the ancient reality of death. The story ended predictably but satisfactorily. Immortality, regardless of form, has been forever a human obsession, but there are those - typically less vocal - among us who have embraced the natural cycle of life. Creasey succeeded in making the science fictional banal. The goth club humored me, and he made some well-thought derivative points about how uploading minds would affect the state of journalism and literature, not to mention the central conflict of a dead relative's disembodied presence lurking around the house. The addition of nanocameras, the "Eyes of the Dead," was also interesting and might have been examined further. However, he focused admirably on the human element of the story -- the main character's relationship with her overbearing near-death mother. 
Dear X,

    Our basketball team lost. Sorry. Now you won't be able to watch and imagine me and some two-years-younger replacement for you watching too, maybe touching somehow. I know you won't get more specific than that, in your head. Since anyway we were just touching knees and occasionally thighs and maybe our hands and elbows on accident when something exciting happens and we throw up our arms like we're shooting a large beachball into a large hoop.
    I shouldn't call her a replacement for you. Really, she's not as great. More like, you're a replacement for her, like when we're talking and I find myself pretending I'm talking to you again, back in high school. But she is here, now, and you two are pretty similar. She doesn't actually like basketball, though. She won't watch unless her friends do. Unless I do. Maybe you're not that similar. Maybe, you just have the same first name and so I free associate.
    But no. No you're nothing alike really. You, I remember when you were crazy on cough medicine at one of my rec league games, cheering for us at the top of your fluid-filled lungs and cussing at the ref and lacking all self-consciousness until halftime when you got up for some reason and realized that everyone was looking at you funny. And you didn't care and kept cheering anyway. We won that game, I think.
    Now of course I just watch. Not as much as you do, sounds like. All the most rabid fans I know are women. Myself and most guys I hang out with are too reserved to get rabid about other guys playing sports, even if they're playing well enough to be televised. But we watch and let our lady-friends' enthusiasm infect our demeanor and soon we're yelling at the TV and booing and making anticipatory noises and groaning and sometimes even laughing. I have a hard time understanding this but it's fun to just go along with. Somehow we all connect with and understand and interface with and accept each other through these spectation rituals. All passive in the same way, the basis for our inter-action.
    This is getting abstract and off-topic, sorry. What I'm writing you about: I wish you would still come visit. Do we need basketball as an excuse to see each other? Granted mutually enjoyed activities are important and the team's losing is a bummer. That hasn't seemed to hurt my relationship with the other X. At the same time, there aren't a lot of mutual activities we enjoy. You can only talk about drugs and parties and homework and food and families and friends for so long. Music helps. There's something more bothering me about her, though, something I have a hard time identifying. Probably I'm thinking too much as usual. I think you would like her.
    Remember how we met? I was supposed to describe an attractive person for my fiction writing class, and I had been thinking about writing about us for this assignment called "Connections and Disconnections":
When we first met I had nothing to say: I was overwhelmed in a crowd and just wanted to attach myself and my friend, who had just been stood up by a girl I knew only online, to a larger group. Safety in numbers. To facilitate our joining their group, which had a gender ratio opposite our duo, she offered us gum. I accepted. The gum was the Zebra kind which began it's chewed life super sweet and then abruptly and quickly turned to flavorless rubber.
Yeah, that Zebra gum. God how awkward were we. I remember I was bothered by how you and B. held hands and skipped around, down on the Plaza on Thanksgiving, with all those people around. Overly cute public display and you had never met before and I guess I'm just not that romantic. I guess I was always more awkward than you were.
    Like, how I met your replacement. I can't even remember. Seriously, we just knew each other through some friends and had drunkenly made out one time when I was dating someone else and then one time she had a party at her house and I was drinking clear liquor out of the bottle. I remember in stop motion seeing her medications in a box on the floor of her room among an ocean of clothes and finding out she had the same flavor of crazy as me according to the doctors and taking one of each of the drugs and lining the bottles up in a row on the floor. Then cut to darkness and shedding clothes and then our clothes are back on and we're walking to my place and I'm telling her secrets and then a montage and waking up in the morning and right after she closes the door filling the the trashcan over the side of my bed with clear liquor and stomach lining. I slept all day in a strange haze beyond alcohol hangover and could barely move. Not very romantic.
    I have another confession to make, less potentially offensive than talking about your replacement (hey, you replaced me right the fuck away and I crashed and burned so I'm going to talk how I like), I am not writing to you on my own volition. No, actually I'm writing this for my aforementioned class assignment. An assignment requiring a short story on "Connections and Disconnections"; this is a letter where I try to reconnect with you. I hope you don't resent that.
    But I am distilling my life and feelings for you. That has to be worth something. Our relationship always was about spending time together and our feelings for each other. Never physical. Whereas with your replacement our relationship started physical and went from there. Maybe that's a sign of maturity. I don't know. Probably not. Probably better than the unrequited lust of our two years time together.
    I remember telling you a story about a romantic hamster once, over AOL Instant Messenger. I saved it:
you: plus you never told me a story
me: alright, so one day there was this hamster named stan, and stan was a militant hamster. he was all like "down with the man!" and had a machine gun that he carried everywhere and used to scare little hamsters and kill agents of The Man. one day he was launching an assault on a brigthly colored hamster tube fotress belonging to a tyrannical hamster wheel company and he was nearly overwhelmed by the vast forces arrayed against him. hamster pellets were landing all around him, and he thought the end was near. just then a gigantic human named Derek saw him and saved him from his certain demise. Derek took him home and made Stan his pet. Stan became depressed and sad because he was no longer fighting the good fight. He tried to jump out of his hamster cage but Derek caught him on the way down. Then he took a picture of stan in his hand and gave it to me. This picture is currently sitting above my computer, and provides comic relief.
you: wow
you: that was impressive
you: who's derek?
me: the man, of course
You were ripping and listening to old mix CDs, labeling songs as you went.
    I remember once, at your house, the house where much partying happened, later, with walls lacking paint or paper, we played cards. After your girlfriends left, after seeing how I couldn't help but focus on you, we played speed with Disney princess cards. Everyone joked that you looked like Mulan -- long narrow eyes, pale skin and dark hair, a cleft chin. You were mostly English, you said, a mutt like most, but with blue eyes and opinions about all the princesses. Later I saw you joined a Facebook group called "Disney gave me unrealistic expectations about love." I hmph-ed and smiled, a little sad.
    Once again, my letter has lost focus. That tends to happen with me. Entropy and what not. But enough about me. Will you still come visit? I miss when your voice gets squeaky. I would come visit you but I'm out like $100 from the last time I tried and missed my bus. I want to end this letter naturally but I don't know how. A while ago I lost that emotional performative concentration needed to write a beautiful letter. Typing just never is tactile enough. Not like writing freehand -- which at least uses some of the same muscles as shooting a basketball -- the way I wrote the first four paragraphs and that last bit about playing cards.

Sincerely,
    
Y

I care about where my food comes from. However, I typically don’t check where items I throw in my shopping cart are from. If given the choice, I buy local, although monetary limitations have had me buying store brands. I used to go to Dillon’s, then HyVee, but the last time I bought groceries I went to Checkers. I don’t have a car so I go with friends and used to bike to Dillon’s. I would love to be able to buy locally grown produce, but I have yet to wake up early enough to get to the farmer’s market in time. I don’t mind corporate food because that’s what I’ve eaten all my life; any consciousness towards local, free-range, organic, or insert-buzz-word food has been learned. I’m skeptical of all these terms, hear rumors about what they really mean, and don’t have the time and money to follow my somewhat trendy understanding of what is most healthy or politically palatable for me to eat.
That said, I consider myself a healthy person. I walk everywhere, do push-ups and sit-ups when I’m restless, and rarely eat fast food. I could exercise more, drink less caffeine and alcohol, eat more greens, and take less pharmaceutical drugs. I quit all smoking (no 4/20 celebration this year), which makes me feel much healthier and has normalized my appetite. I do eat a fair amount of vegetables, mostly green peppers and onion, and lots of grains—noodles, rice, and bread. I might eat too much red meat. I have a hard time generalizing about myself: I behave erratically; I’m not quite a consistent adult yet. Overall, health is important to me and I think that translates into a healthy lifestyle, even if I don’t always follow through on my intentions.
My eating habits have improved slowly throughout my life. I began as a picky eater, fixated on peanut butter and saltine crackers, and gradually learned that there are other tasty edibles out there. I suppose I ate well once I grew out of being picky and ate whatever my mom made, largely in imitation of my dad. Being picky isn’t very manly—he was the human garbage disposal after everyone had their fill. In high school I hung out with a lot of vegetarians and vegans and would eat similar food when we hung out. I never became one myself, though I got all the reasons. The counter-argument I always used was the “but that’s just the way it is” argument: people have always eaten meat and so what if we’ve made it more brutally efficient, that means more food and more people. I was raised Catholic and so my resulting worldview was anthropocentric, to say the least.
Honestly, I forgot about the eating diary until the night before it was due. However, I found it easy to remember what I had eaten in the past few days. I don’t snack or eat out much on weekdays. I was depressed by how I ate all of the meals for those two days alone, and remembered how glad I will be to get a new roommate. I was surprised at how the olive oil I use comes from olives all around the Mediterranean region and not just from one place, which speaks to major mechanization of the process of making that olive oil.
Slaughterhouse Blues has made me realize how much such mechanization is the norm. I work with computers and am generally pro-technology, so this doesn’t give me the howling fantods. Ideally, we would live in small interconnected villages and grow our own food: my dad lives in the suburbs and has a victory garden of sorts, with many edible veggies planted. I think this is a good start. People should care about where their food comes from because they are part of a larger ecosystem in which the human economy is enmeshed. I’ve read some of this but am not quite convinced. Dude’s megalomaniacal.

    The Singularity stands apart so extraordinarily that to most people the notion seems far fetched. Stross brings the Singularity to life - makes it a happening, gives it an agent. Manfred's life sounds appealing - no need for money, living off your ideas. Explanation of his cyborgian qualities sounds remind me of my web surfing-induced information-drenched fever-dreams. Explanations of politics and culture in this future bring color and texture. I worry that the references are too dense and specialized for all but a small audience. Slashdotting, for example. But I suppose that's fine.
    Kurzweil sounds like a bizarre character. I suppose I believe in him. His proofs are convincing enough, but I have some skeptical and cynical neural nets that say things won't turn out quite so cleanly. You could o much worse though, for a prophet. The Newsweek profile needles him some, for good measure and reason. I haven't fact-checked enough to say how he's doing in the prediction business.
    One of my main concerns is software. Say we have the computer or quantum equivalent of a human brain in hardware. Is there any relative Moore's law for software emulating cognition? Or is that just assumed in his projections? Maybe he covers that later in the book. He doesn't get too specific about the form that a conscious or spiritual machine will take, to his credit. The Newsweek article mentions that he counts Google as a signle entitiy to support his predictions, which seems reasonable. However, server farms and programmers with mandatory free time isn't what most people think of when they imagine intelligent machines. 
    Stross really runs with the idea of sentient machines, what with defecting lobsters and AI rights. THe idea of corporations that exist only on servers in tiered software is fun. Definite satire of the music industry ala RIAA lawsuits &c. You can tell he's copyleft.
    Vinge brings up the singularity as eschaton, tracing the development of the idea. I'm not convinced there will a Matrix-like enslavement. Personally I'd like to see transhumans, cyborgs, which I guess makes me like Kurzweil, except much less intelligent.
The protagonist is thrust into a new place.  The place itself serves as a catalyst for the protagonist's opportunity for change.
The protagonist is part of a group which changes and puts great pressure on the protagonist, serving as a catalyst for the opportunity for change.

You are working the dynamic between one person (protagonist) and the dominant culture of a place or group and how that culture challenges the protagonist.

College graduates go back home to live where they grew up. They try to relate to each other, work together, against a suburbia that has changed some but not as much as they.
Stuck in their collegiate ways (biking, coffee then beer, overthinking and tinkering), challenged to practicality having to live with family again (car privileges, emotional support, temporo-spatial accountability, altered $ situations)
OFC: Quit acting like a victim and take control of some situation, making own decision, in some context that brings the two worlds together.

    The Koerper family trip to St. Louis seemed to me like an excuse to sit by the central courtyard pool and drink. For Dad's parents and his branch of the family tree, though, it was more. Herman Koerper had listed his occupation as painter when they immigrated to the US before the wars of German unification, and by the 1880 census he was still painting along with his twenty year old son William. They settled in St. Louis, MO, and their great work was the ceiling of a church in the southeast part of town, a few blocks from the Mississippi. While a few of my aunts and uncles drank by the hot tub, Papa, Nani, Dad, his little sister Johanna, Mom, my three little sisters and I set out for the day to pay homage to the work of our ancestors. A pilgrimage. Mom was occupied with Lily, age three. I was thirteen, Maria eleven and soon to be twelve, and Mimi nine.
    Finding the church was a challenge. Neither my dad nor Nani knew that part of the city. We started in the phone book for the address, using the name from the family lore codified a by my dad's great aunt Ruth. We found a church with a name similar to but not exactly the same. At the front desk of the suburban hotel, the concierge seemed confused about why we wanted to visit this particular church, a highway jaunt several exits away in a bad part of town. We got a map and got on our way.
    After some confusion -- Nani took a wrong exit and my dad took the lead -- we arrived. I doubted whether we were in the right place. We drove around the church until we found an entrance to the parking lot, which was sweltering and hazing in the August heat. We walked inside into the climate control, through the entryway and into the nave, gazing towards the ceilings.
    Nothing special. A solid color, blue like a night sky. I was confused. I had imagined something like the Sistine Chapel, though expected less than that. I looked at my elders indirectly, uncomfortable. None of them were looking at anyone else. They all seemed to search for something, becoming unsure like me of what that something was. Looking for literature, someone with answers. I looked again after admiring the standard-issue stained glass. There was no sign of age or wear anywhere in the church. My ancestors lived and painted around the turn of the century. Their work must have been lost.
    The parishioner on watch offered weak confirmation. She didn't really know, but she thought it had been painted recently. This settled everyone's questions. We walked outside, dejected, offering diluted praise for our founding fathers.
    Outside we visited Mary's grotto in an opening between the church and rectory. We genuflected, then turned around for a group photo taken by Johanna. We then headed back to the cars, slow and contemplative. As I passed the edge of the church I caught a strange scent, like burning tires, except the only time I'd smelled it before had been when the rebellious older across-the-street neighbor boy walked by when I was mowing the lawn. On the side of the church I saw a black man, but before I could look any closer my parents told us to hurry to the car and hung back a little. Once I got to the car I snuck a look as I went around to the passenger side and saw the man up and walking back the way we came, his hand to his face. I buckled my seat belt feeling drained and inflated. We drove back to the hotel in silence.

Dialog? need a better sense of what is going on, what's changing in the protag's head--realizing his elders are falliable, stories about family and self are madeup;

Scene at the beginning with family drinking by the pool
THIRD PERSON, like DFW

    Family vacations always surprise. Ben's dad looked through a phone book at the front desk of a hotel in suburban St. Louis.
    "I see a couple different St. Mary's, mom," he said.
    "Let me see that, Teddy," said Nani.
    According to family lore, Prussian forefather Herman and his American-born son William had painted the ceiling of a church called St. Mary's sometime before the turn of the 20th century. Long dead great aunt Ruth found the census and immigration records and left a file to Papa.
    "It's that one," Papa said, "St. Mary Magdalene."
    "OK, dad, I'll take that up to the front desk and see if we can get directions."
    Ben watched his dad walk up to the desk supporting the open phone book. Nani and Papa were still looking at each other.
    "Do we need to go get Joan?" Papa asked.
    "I'll nab her," Nani said. "I saw her out by the pool. She's all ready started in."
    Nani, Papa, Ted, his little sister Joan, and Ben set out for the afternoon to pay homage to the work of their ancestors. A pilgrimage. Mom was occupied with Lily, age three. They stayed by the pool in the August heat with May, age eight, and a few other childless, thirsty, aunt-uncle couples. Ben was eleven.
    "Gah, that guy was an idiot." Ben had watched his dad get frustrated at the front desk and walk back with a map. Papa had been silent, also watching his son but head swiveling.
    "What did he say?" Papa asked.
    "He had no idea where the church was, just gave me this map of downtown."
    Nani returned with Johanna, whose face was slightly flushed. Ben thought to ask why but didn't because Papa seemed to notice too but turned his glance to Nani.
    "Let's get this show on the road, shall we?" Joan said, too loud.
    Joan went with Nani and Papa, who took the map and the lead. Ben went with his dad.
    "Has Papa been to this church before?" Ben asked.
    Ted kept his eyes on the road. "Nope. I've been trying to get them to do this for years."
    Nani took an exit and Ted followed.
    "Did they paint any other churches?" Ben asked.
    "Not that I know of. William painted signs, too, I think."
    They went up and down a few blocks, and found only a Lutheran church. Nani pulled off to the side of the street but Ben's dad pulled up next to her and rolled down the window.
    "We have to go further down the highway. East, south east."
    Nani frowned and turned to Papa who was saying something. Ben and his father shared a look and Ben's father quickly before shouting out the window again.
    "Just follow me." He rolled up the window and turned up the air conditioning as he pushed on the accelerator. After a pause the others followed.
    When they exited again, Ben saw an old sign that said pawn shop.
    "Dad, what's a pawn shop?"
    "People buy and sell old things there. They're a sign of a bad neighborhood."
    Ben noticed lots of people on the sidewalks, especially at the corners. He stuck his nose to the window with curiosity.
    Ben doubted they were in the right place. Dad drove around the church until he found an entrance to the parking lot, which was sweltering and hazing in the August heat. They all walked from the air conditioned cars inside into the more cool air, through the entryway and into the nave, gazing towards the ceilings.
    Nothing special. A solid color, blue like a dusk sky. Ben was confused. He had imagined something like the Sistine Chapel, though expected less than that. He looked at his elders indirectly, uncomfortable. None of them were looking at anyone else. They all seemed to search for something, like Ben becoming unsure of what that something was. Looking for literature, a plaque, someone with answers. He looked again after staring at the standard-issue stained glass. There was no sign of wear in the church except dust. His ancestors lived and painted in the late 1800s. Their work must be lost.
    The parishioner on watch offered weak confirmation. She didn't really know, but she thought the ceiling had recently been painted. She didn't know what the ceiling had been like before. This settled everyone's questions. They walked outside, dejected, offering diluted praise for their founding fathers.
    Outside they visited a grotto between the church and rectory. They genuflected, then turned around for a group photo taken by Joan. They then headed back to the cars, slow and contemplative. As they passed the edge of the church they caught a strange scent. Ben smelt burning tires--the smell from when the rebellious older across-the-street neighbor boy walked past. A man huddled against the side of the church.
    Before he could look any closer his dad pushed him towards the car and hung back a little, telling him to hurry. Once Ben got to the car he snuck a look as he went around to the passenger side and saw the man up and walking back the way they came, his hand to his face. Ben buckled his seat belt feeling drained and inflated. 
    "I'm sorry they painted over the ceiling, dad," Ben said.
    They drove back to the hotel in silence.
Worldwide Mental Wellness

How do different cultures define and treat mental disorder and illness? Western symptomologies are colonizing non-Western minds through the spread of information. In every culture, there are patterns of behaviors and beliefs which are outside the norm and pathologized. These mental illnesses do not occur across cultures uniformly but manifest themselves in different ways. They are treated by shamans or psychiatrists, who often have firsthand experience with the illnesses they treat.
Sometimes what one culture would consider insane is considered acceptable by another. Within certain contexts such as vision quests or festivals, having visions or mutilating oneself serves a cultural function. Often different generations express different beliefs about mental illness.
Some mental disorders, like Asperger's syndrome in the United States, confers certain advantages along as well as drawbacks. Some of the diagnosed champion neurodiversity.
Fabrega - Why Psychiatric Conditions are Special 
Modern medicine viewed as scientifically objective and based in the real, with little to no concern for culture and religion

Can I incorporate Fanon somehow? He doesn't have anything todo with depression, but does deal with postcolonial psychiatry, demands cultural relativism in psychiatry.

Maybe mention that Foucault and Deleuze/Guattari covered this topic like forty years ago and much more thoroughly/theoretically.

Go with depression (India, China, Navajo, Aboriginal?) and talk about western versus cultural specific approaches to healing.

Cristina Rivera Garza
development of art therapy methods in mexico; linking mental illness to class, social environment (ghettos causing illness); mental illness in modernizing cultuar.much discussion of treatmetn, transition from moral to clinical. connection of mental illness to criminality (morality)

Australian Aborigines
mental illness as a consequence of sorcery, floating curses, ghosts--supernatural because otherwise inexplicable. people with mental illness thought to maybe be sorcerer themselves. links to substance abuse, such as petrol sniffers making friends with the devil to help them commit crimes. petrol sniffers get more sympathy than marijuana smokers, who tend to stay inside without moving talking to themselves and inanimate objects within their weird headspace: petrol for the lost and lonely, weed for partiers. Tension between European and traditional modes of behavior seen as contributing to substance use; substances like euro-magic. Residents expect too much of the local clinic. Limited access to consumables related to mental illlness? Beliefs in sorcery undermine consensus about causes of illness and treatments.

China:
Anti-social withdrawal from community activities seen as political not just clinical. More and more such behavior has become depoliticized, however. Western ideas about mental illness slowly percolating. Neurasthenia--outdated depression-like pathology, drug company advertised to treat it with SSRI's in China. Pharmasalespeople interface with doctors, bit of corruption. Words used of pathologies seeping into everyday discourse and normal states of mind commonly experienced by "everybody." Two words for craziness: one more or less mania, the other a combo of depression and epilepsy. Manic symptoms viewed as good in increasingly capitalistic society. Focus on bipolar in his research; interviews with patients and family members at hospital facility. Bipolar is alittle known term so there's no sense of bipolar identity or expectations for bipolrs. Stigma present and recognized by teh effected. Younger people more likely to consider illness an individual responsibility. Anecdotals: old man doesn't like the way things are changing politically at his government job, starts ranting (speaking nonsense) and getting mad in what seems to his wife a random fashion. Doesn't think anything's wrong with him and believes he was tricked into the hospital; woman with financial/work-related troubles finds her life falling apart, starts speaking nonsense and got angry paranoid manic, resisted treatment for months but finally gave in but came back to find her husband wandering--eventual divorce; nineteen year old student puts a lot of pressure on himself to succeed and becomes depressed, not wanting to force himself to school, then takes Prozac and flips to the manic side upon dosage increase, feeling capable ambitious and overextending himself getting overly excited so that his mom notices and forces him into the hospital--he accepts diagnoses and see himself as his own worst enemy; factory worker from rural area gets depressed by competition and then becomes manic to deal with the stress, feeling he has glorious divinely prescribed work todo, post-hospitalization connected his illness to his ambition and worried about future marriage and job prospects and how he would repay his parents for raising him.
srspathos
Moralities of family replaced by moralities of state replaced by capitalist moralities of individual
"Mr. Tian’s criticism of the national changes that will lead to “collapse” metaphorically connects the sociomoral world to his ill body."
"The linguistic focus on lack of control embeds the illness in a situational context of misfortune sans injustice or intention. Ms. Shan’s story of bad luck thus differs from Mr. Tian’s account of a moral emotional reaction to immoral circumstance. However, their narratives share two common elements—the elaboration of significant life situations surrounding the illness and the lack of self-blame."
"Rather than a relationship between the problematic society and the moral body (as in Mr. Shan’s case), the divergence and struggle portrayed in Mr. Lu’s narrative are located within his own psyche. His source of hope, then, lies in the defeat of an undesirable part of himself."
"Unlike Mr. Tian, who insisted that the root of the problem was not personal, Mr. Zhong described just the opposite. In fact, the problem was personal for Mr. Zhong in two ways: both in his “personality” and in his inability to control it."
Back in the day work was regimented and permanent, government controlled. Now there is no such stability and capitalist competition forces a more reliance on self and a sense of individual responsibility. "Lacking reliable safety nets in the socioeconomic domain, many younger workers and students such as Mr. Zhong and Mr. Lu feel that they must indeed ‘rely on themselves’ for their own welfare and livelihood, as the availability of employment and benefits remains in constant flux, particularly for migrant laborers like Mr. Zhong (Wong et al. 2006). Thus, while the four patients’ interview narratives are being used here to examine the intergenerational orientations toward the experience of bipolar disorder, it is important to recognize that the contents of their complaints are very much in step with the socioeconomic atmosphere of their times."
Article does not consider traditional healing methods--only modernized Chinese

Depressive Illness and Navajo Healing:
"In our view, the most productive stance has been expressed by Byron Good (1992), who suggests that along with conceptual critique, psychiatric diagnostic categories be taken seriously by subjecting them to systematic cross-cultural investigation, at the same time critically examining the anthropological hypothesis about the cross-cultural heterogeneity of psychiatric disorder."
[Ugh. Superficial ramble for sure. Sorry, Don. I'll shoot for something like Slaughterhouse Blues, which I always found incredibly readable. ]
So Eleanor combined four different healing traditions in order to deal with her depression after her father's death (damn weaving metaphor)
Rita: three healing systems, used to do NAC but a doctor worried about the effect of peyote on cancer
Jimmy: as a healer exposed to more danger of illness and believed he was a victim of witchcraft, performed NAC peyote ceremonies and needed one for himself after about three nights in a row. "When you are a person who performs all these ceremonies for people, you become aware of the entire area of illness, being sick that is part of your treatment. You're totally exposed to everything that affects people. I think that is how you get sick. Every time you get sick you are made aware of what it means to be sick or be well. You then use this experience in your treatment of people. You use certain herbs or certain ceremonies to overcome these illnesses and in turn you have added knowledge how curing and healing is possible through the use of herbs and ceremonies. It's like you gain for your patient. You study how being sick can affect people. You have actual practical experience to help your patients and help you treat them, that's how I look at it."
Differences between Navajo and Anglo conceptions of symptoms--external circumstances seen as symptoms in addition to internal distress.
MAJOR CLICHE--treat the patient, not the disorder

World basics exposition material:
-genetically engineered super-rich act as gods; some tricksters, some benevolent, some compassionate, some destructive
-lower classes get crappier genetic modifications and health care, causing strange side-effects - some awful, some intriguingly and threateningly useful like: There are animals that can produce electric fields and sense disturbances within those fields ("dolphin fish" from Planet Earth). There must be a series of genes that gives them the ability to do this. To use these in genetic engineering of humans would be difficult and require tweaking to account for different physiology and environment, etc. But could that be adapted for use in air, resulting in more intimate contact with machines and each other?
-UN manages the world climate imperfectly, poor countries suffering
-Africa becomes increasingly stable and powerful: set in US umbrella Lagos? China and US vie for dominance of India and Africa
-Middle Easterners are starving, Mahdi's everywhere; migration away from oil to diverse energy sources
-Russia poor and run by NeoNazis
-US fed weak, much of the country desert or floodplain; global warming run amok
-corporations and cartels; Chinese, Indian, Japanese, Brazilian, as well as Euro-American
-worldwide wi-fi and TV; broadcasting rights a new battleground
    
Absurd exposition, displaying how bizarre Earth has become in a hyperlocal globally connected world:

    Eliza was anxious. Xavi had gone overboard this time.

    Political situation in Lagos (or wherever): local insurgents have supplanted government much like in Gaza and Naxal country

Notes from the response papers:
HIV-induced genetic mutation while watching redemptive misery via alien colonization.
Man's religion and metaphysics are the voices of his glands.
The ancients could breed with their gods.

Grays as new gods manufactured by corrupt old anthropomorphin gods for monstrous fleshbag masses.

Don't talk to Aliens.

Suburban farmville -- family yards become family plots supporting increasingly dense urban areas

food w/ drugs in them

The While
    Dawn on the deck overlooking the suburban plot I tend here in western greater Kansas City. My son isn't happy about being awake: he's screaming, pacing around and screaming spite in his cute-yet-scary way. He's nineteen, a brilliant monster. We've given up sending him to doctors. My wife Eliza's standing at the balcony smoking her morning blended cigarette of cannabis and tobacco. I go over to her and put my arm around her waist, hip touching the cigarette pack in her side pocket.
    "Lovely sunrise. The city's commuters have outdone themselves."
    "Always so clever so early, Xavier. Funny paradox about smog and sun transitions, though."
    "Speaking of sun transitions, you should get him to smoke with you or put some of that stuff in his breakfast or something. These tirades were invigorating for a while but now they're just too much."
    "Either that or you need to lay off the Nuvigil."
    "Go drink your coffee, neanderthal."
    "Go use your cyborg logic to run a cool down sequence on our little monster, clown."
    Remiel's raving about some carbomb that just killed 33 outside the Hagia Sophia when I come into the kitchen to cast my spell:
    "Hey, at least damage to the architecture was superficial, yeah?"
    "Those terrorists don't know what they're defacing! Devoid of education."
    "More educated than you, buddy."
    "I read and watch and study cross-continental politics more than you or any of the so-called mullahs who send these slum dogs to their deaths."
    "You'd think one of them might be struck by the beauty or essence or cultural memory of the place they're supposed to splatter and not go through with it."
    "Not bloody likely, with all the indoctrination they've been through."
    "I'm thinking we need to do a better job indoctrinating you, lil' monster. If you did this morning ritual anywhere else you'd be hauled away to the pharm clinic."
    "And I've had enough of your chemical meddling and armchair pathologizing, pill-head."
    I sigh. "So much animosity for a Monday morning."
    Eliza enters swallowing a pull of coffee and then:
    "Yeah, Thelema yesterday wasn't calming. Portentious is more the word."
    "Well, seems like we've all done what we wilt for the morning. Time to get going."

    Xavi was a digital child. Raised by fallen-away Catholics, taught about Taoism at five, he devoured every nature documentary he could find on the net by age seven. He started taking Ritalin for ADHD at nine, after failing a meditation regimen enforced by his mother. The Ritalin helped him focus in school, but had some unintended consequences. His grades improved, but he became the preeminent psychological bully of the class, torturing kids who had pushed him around when he was younger. And revenge was sweet, a counter-point to the bitterness that lingered under his easy distract-ability.

    My parents know I'm a killer. They are proud of me for my grades and test scores, missing nary a point in my whole sophomore year as a Computer Science major at UMKC. But I see the worry and shame on their faces at dinner once the topic of school has been exhausted and they ask me about my social life. Acne covers my forehead in a brown plate of scabrous tissue and boils line my cheekbones. The other students in class keep their distance, and only the most cerebral and ugly acknowledge my existence. I'm a freak in their eyes, and looking in the mirror I can't deny their sentiments.
    Beyond school, I've found somewhere I'm a hero. I spend my free time controlling an avatar halfway across the globe in the service of Monsanto. In game, what I do matters, and no one can judge me by the quality of my skin.
    "Remi?" My mom is at the top of the stairs. She can hear the quiet sounds of battle from my speakers. The basement, or the dungeon in my parlance, is my domain. My bleary eyes keep my thumbs moving, checking surveillance from the drone planes above the suburban Lagos slum where my avatar crouches behind a slouched corrugated shack.
    "Remi, have you slept? Are you sleeping?" She stands beside me now.
    I glance over to show her the whites of my eyes.
    "Come up stairs. You have class in six hours and you need to sleep. I have your meds set out by your place at the table. I've made you a breakfast salad." More of our garden veggies with boiled eggs from the neighborhood coop, probably.
    "You call the meal I'm about to eat breakfast?"
    "Well it's breakfast time for the your father and I. We sleep at night."
    "Morning comes earlier in eastern Africa, mom."
    I don't need to see her eyes roll down as she turns.

    Xavi's parents called it a hobby, but it was more accurately an obsession. To call bombing a hobby would denigrate a transgressive artform to the level of stamp collecting. Bombing does not mean blowing things up, unless you count people's conceptions as vulnerable to explosion. Simply put, bombing euphemises vandalism, graffiti, street art. For Xavi it was expression in its highest form.
    The innumerable choices of canvas, for one thing, added an exciting number of variables to the equation. The more visible the spot, the more pressure there was for creativity and less safe times for work. Vigilant surveillance had yet to come to Lagos, but the bombers still kept to the darkness.
    There was something about walking city streets at night that felt magical. A vague, ancestral sense of danger, encouraged by frantic newscasts, pumped the blood and dilated the pupils. Vistas of lamp-lit abandoned roads lined with slumbering, humming buildings. A primordial calm.

    "A pig. That's what she called you. She said you are a pig because of the way you treat women," Eliza says to Xavier. They lie in bed in Xavier's dorm room, hung over.
    Xavier laughs. "I don't want to generalize, but she enjoyed the attention. She wants me to dominate her; said so before. But that's a lie. You've seen the way she prays on those helpless stoner boys, making them Pad Thai and driving them to rent movies."
    "I don't want to hear about when you two dated. Last night you led on then rejected two of her friends, kept touching her ass, and then told her none of your friends want her."
    "I don't remember touching her ass. She must be lying."
    "I saw you do it! And that was the first thing she said to me on the phone this morning."
    "I guess I've done worse. I wouldn't know much about my weekends if people weren't always telling stories about me."
    "Typical. So self-absorbed and in love with yourself and everything like yourself. It's seriously disgusting."

    Walking into the psychiatrist's office, Xavi wished he had had time to shower beforehand. Vague motherly recommendations left-over from the drive there simmered in his short-term memory. He stepped into the elevator, which reeked of tobacco like someone had lit up inside, impatient to start their smoke-break. The elevator ascended imperceptibly. Installed recently, no doubt. The building was a characterless novelty of the new Lagos suburbs, built atop a razed shanty town. At the third floor the elevator hung for five seconds, in limbo. Jerking down, Xavi heard hydraulics click with satisfaction. The door opened with a chime; too close to the door stood a sharply dressed woman, face like a pudgy wolf's. He walked past briskly, coming close to brushing her but not making eye contact. People who look like carnivores are not to be trusted, he thought.

    Eliza enters and sits in the hospital room where her patient, Loki Skywalker, a Gray, speaks into the phone.
    "That's not very complimentary," it says.
    "Lo--" It swivels its head and turns the phone down from its mouth.
    With a shaky, E.T. finger to its lips: "Shhh!"
    "There you go," it says, phone back at its mouth.
    Eliza sighs. She glances at the T.V. that it seems to look just above as it listens to whoever is on the other line. It must be talking to a human if its using English.
    "Did she stop eating again?" Loki asks.
    Eliza picks up the medicine bottle on the side table. She counts to make sure that Loki stays current on its Soma prescription.
    "Scripture talks about thirsting for the true bread of life," Loki says.
    For the Grays, Soma acts more like a mood stabilizer than a muscle relaxant. In the nature documentary on the T.V., a pride of lionesses bring down a gazelle.
    "Did you listen?" Loki asks.
    Monsanto owns the hospital where Eliza puts her xenobiology degree to work.
    "She may not have been able to eat in this world, but now she is eating the truth," Loki says.
    Really, she's a nurse.
    "Did you tell her that?"
    No.
    "She sounds like she is a good listener, someone you can talk to about anything bothering you."
    Eliza gets up and turns to leave, saying over her shoulder: "Make the jump, Loki Skywalker."

    The pros of acting on microphone: disembodied noise; ghosted sound. That was all Xavi heard, sitting like a bookend, headphones wrapping him in a thin film of silence. Part of him was at a bar, on the breath of friends. He could simulate some of their words in his mind. A transgression, remembered in the dark and funny in the light. When the song ends he would no longer float about, signifying swine. In the library, he stayed where he should.

    Grays, like the aliens from Roswell. Turns out they were real after all. Or that's what the Kansas City nightly news broadcasts, anyway. Images of Grays riding wooly mammoths through the streets of Manhatten, victorious. People boo, hiss, and fire bullets at them that disappear, indicating the magical level of technology with which these puny, fragile creatures conquered.
    "NBC broadcasts some ridiculous kak, but this is too much," Xavier said.
    "Since when do you care what's happening in New York? Besides occasional climate control bull, the U.N. doesn't do shit to us," I said.
    "Eliza. The U.N. climate control algorithms screw California more than KC. When was the last time we had nasty biking weather for our commute to light rail?"
    Just like Xavier; always defending his bosses.
    "So, would you rather go by Zeus or Thor?"

    In the deep of night, when dreams sit above the sleeping heads of most, I sit awake in the same space and time. I swim through the murk, a snapping turtle. Making plans in my sleep and doing in delirium.
    I graduated to Psy-Ops without an invitation. I hacked ad screens displaying commercials in the Muslim enclaves of Lagos bordering the combat slums. And I found fake commercials featuring "Muhammad approved" bras with blasphemous visual representation and disrobed models on some of the nastier anonymous web boards. The resulting chaos made the neighboring insurgents clumsy.
    Relationships are like earthquakes. Natural phenomena with after-shocks. You don't have much control, and oftentimes someone is just a simulacra of someone previous. A slightly different incarnation of the same traits you loved elsewhere. The space between them.
The Gods in Homer's Iliad, Alpha and Omega
"It is only by contrast with mankind that the gods become fully aware of their grandeur and their oneness." -- W. F. OttoFrom a footnote in Jasper Griffin's book,Homer on Life and Death. In the last two chapters I found a thorough and engaged consideration of the gods in Homer'sIliad. 
    Otto packs accuracies into this quote: Homer's gods are limited, at least in their self-knowledge; they resemble mankind enough that such a contrast improves their self-knowledge; yet this self-knowledge does not lead to fractures among them but rather to greater cohesion. They cohere under the aegis of Zeus over the course of the epic.

In alpha, gods and men are at odds, tensions are high: Agamemnon and Achilles get into it after the prophet recommends on Achilles’ request that Agamemnon give back Chryses’ daughter to end Apollo’s plague. Agamemnon throws a little fit and decides to take Briseis from Achilles. Athena comes in to keep Achilles from attacking Agamemnon but does no more. Odysseus leads the ceremonial sacrifice and feast to end the plague by returning Chryses’ daughter, with music and wine and rejoicing. Thetis comforts her son once Ag.’s messengers have taken Briseis and requests that Zeus honor Achilles by turning the war against the Greeks while he stews (rages) in his hut. Zeus reacts initially by worrying about how Hera will react, and she does react badly, leading to a fight that ends with Zeus threatening to hit her. Hephaestus, their son, has to break the tension by serving her wine and comforting her, telling a story about how Zeus threw him off Olympus to make all the other gods laugh and resume their merriment, which closely resembles the feast that the Greeks and Trojan priest share.
 
Regardless of the directions he takes in The Birth of Tragedy and other works, Nietzsche does make a good point about the Greek gods in the quote chosen by Barnes. As a reader, we have a gods-eye view of the action involving men and that involving the gods. One would imagine that to hear a rhapsode tell of how Zeus threatens Hera would validate such husband-wife interactions for the hearers. Or, at minimum, the perspective allows for judgement like Zeus gives, detached but favoring one's own kind.

In omega, the gods and men air their grievances but show respect and restraint. Apollo makes the case for having Hermes steal Hector’s body, Hera retorts bringing up Achilles’ immortal mother, and Zeus sends Iris to get Thetis so he can tell her to tell Achilles to ransom Hector. Once Thetis reluctantly arrives and gets the message she relays it to Achilles who instantly agrees. Iris goes to tell Priam the deal. Priam sets out after arguing with his wife and insulting his sons. Hermes comes at Zeus’ request to help Priam get to Achilles’ hut, disguised as a Myrmidon with an elaborate story. He reveals who he really is once Priam is into Achilles’ camp and leaves. Priam supplicates Achilles. There’s a lot about Achilles as the murderer of but also a stand-in for Priam’s sons, esp. Hector. Priam invites Achilles to see him as his own father, whom he will never see again. Achilles takes the ransom and loads Hector’s body on the bier out of Priam’s sight. They feast and admire one another. Priam goes out and sleeps for a while until Hermes reminds him where he is and they gtfo with Hector’s body. Then the gods are out of the picture entirely, except for the occasional mention of Zeus. Death and mourning is singularly human, not divine.
 
Begins in the middle, ends at the beginning of the end.
 
Hector’s body plays a role similar to the one that the two ladies play

Gods love but do not die; won’t let people spoil their good time. Zeus pities immortal horses, man most miserable of all on earth.


KEY WORD: Thauma, awe; or maybe Phu, to be; ATH -- bet there's some precedence sck

Xenophanes links:
Abstract:
Mundane science fiction with a Dickian/Ballardian twist. 

Vignettes -- wired for war, climate controlling corporate god, Xavi the bomber (Muhammad image in Lagos from KC on Christian feed channel that aggregates user data based on tag-centric relevancy algorithms), 

Kansas City as a federal city-state
Xavi works for the feds' climate control bureau
Light rail!

Outline:
Establish scene and characters - postpubescent gamer culture, drug/tech-enhancement experimentation, underground (basements), lip service to parents god country but real motivations much more primal; once you reach a certain gamer score, you can be cleared to control an avatar android on a real battlefield

So, protagonist is a sophomore in high school shunned by his peers for the most part, brilliant in school, finds meaning through a war game. Perhaps storyline goes that he believes in the cause but loses faith? Or maybe gets into drugs in Afghanistan? BUT I don't know what it's like in Afghanistan. Not really anyway. Would an Ender's Game -- Avatar mashup be all that great? I wanted cyborgs and drugs in my story but now I'm like posturing to be a poor-man's James Cameron and that's kinda lame. Would like a strong female character ala SW's char. Probably would have to be the mom. Man I'm hitting a great demographic...
Electric Meal
    My friend Mike was in a psychiatric hospital and I had to go visit him. I had introduced him to my acid connection and thought that Mike knew enough to be responsible but he tripped for days until his parents sent him to the psych ward. 
    A month before, on the fourth of July, he let John and I trip at his house after we went to a fireworks display. He was our stoned trip sitter -- ground control. When he called me from the hospital he was laughing then crying and making little sense.
    "Man I know I got this demon in me from birth and he won't leave me alone."
    "Mike..."
    "But it's okay man! Cuz I'm the reincarnation of St. Paul. See, We both had struggles, persecuted the faithful, you know, and now I know what I have to do to bring the kingdom of heaven to earth."
    ". . ."
    "Seriously, man, I can see it, the line of reincarnations between him and me. I can see it!"
    He had always had a weird relationship with religion, going to all-boys Catholic high school with me after being raised out in the sticks on homebrew evangelicalism. We had talked about religion in our wide-ranging discussions over beers and spliffs. After I hung up, having promised to come visit, I couldn't sleep. I went and got drunk at a friend's so I wouldn't see my dad go to church Sunday morning. I felt guilty enough.
    I couldn't go to my mom's either. She had been to the mental hospital several times during my childhood. Her bipolar disorder had been the counterpoint to my dad's inability to manage our finances in their divorce a few years earlier. I had been to visit mom in the hospital before, but my memories of those visits were shrouded in fear and concern for her. I had never felt responsible for her visits to the hospital, as I did somewhat for Mike's.
    I went to visit on a Monday. We were going to college soon, all to different places, and the summer had been a long anxious affair with occasional working and partying to balance out the boredom. Mike was moving into the city for college and I was flying to the coast for a change of scenery. The mental hospital was in a suburb, and looked like any other office building.
    In the waiting room I had to sign in at the front desk and provide Mike's confidentiality code. He had calmed down some on the phone and remembered to give me that key piece of info after what sounded like an interaction with a nurse. I sat patiently and waited for visiting hours to begin. A severe weather documentary played quietly on the TV mounted at the corner of the ceiling. Crying women lamented their homes lost to a tornado. The stories of the people who died told solemnly over images of trees and cars thrown around by the winds.
    There were a few other people in the waiting room with me: a pretty twenty-something dressed sharp with shoulder length brown hair and a family of slightly overweight embarrassed-looking middle-class tawny-haired Midwesterners. I kept my glances discreet.
    "Visiting hours have begun," the woman behind the desk said.
    We all rose in awkward unison and she buzzed us through the big double doors opposite the entrance. She took a right and led us down an antiseptic hallway. Another left and I noticed the low drone of air conditioners and something else, beyond the computer hums that came from the offices, doors all closed.
    We took a final right and faced another set of double doors, sturdy and wooden. A plaque at eye level read: ELOPEMENT RISK. The sharply dressed woman pushed the buzzer and an orderly came and opened the door.
    "Now, please be aware that the patients will be medicated and may act a little funny." She allowed herself a smile. "Please sign in at the front desk and then I'll announce you according to what I have here on the paperwork. Understood?"
    We all nodded. 
    She opened the door and we walked up to a central round desk. There were two other hallways, all of which could be seen clearly from the circular diaphram-high desk. A panopticon, I thought, the most efficient layout for handling prisoners. At the corners where the hallways met there were rooms with bubble windows, patients inside. One had a TV, where most of them were. The other had tables with puzzles, board games, and books. Mike was at one of the tables with a puzzle. Some patients eyed us curiously while others seemed not to notice. Medicated, right.
    The orderly called a name, and a young woman with the same tawny hair came reluctantly out of the puzzle room to greet and hug her family. Another nurse, papers in hand, came from behind the desk and led them down the central hallway and into a room as another name was called. This time a tall lanky man, thirty-ish, came out of the TV room to greet the sharp lady. They hugged and talked quietly and affectionately. The orderly called Mike's name, but his back was to the glass, which seemed sound-proof. The orderly walked over to the door and peeked in:
    "Mike, you have a visitor."
    He got up and turned to see me through the glass, a big slow grin coming across his face. His eyes drooped slightly and his face had a foreign plasticity. I smiled too as he came out greet me.
    "Kevin, good to see you," he said slowly with genuine pleasure.
    "Good to see you too," I said, "you look like you're doing all right." There was relief in my voice that I wasn't sure he heard.
{
    "Yeah. Hey, I want you to meet Drew," he said, looking over my shoulder to the affectionate couple.
    "Drew, this is Kevin, my friend I was telling you about. Drew plays saxophone," he said, turning to me with the satisfaction of a new connection. Mike was a flutist turned guitarist and had played in the jazz band in high school. He and the other music kids had been forming bands, jamming, reforming bands. I played the appreciative ear.
    Drew smiled at Mike's obvious admiration.
    "Nice to meet you. This is my girlfriend Layne. She's a lawyer." He grinned. She nodded smiling wryly and turned towards him, the motion pushing Drew back.
    "He plays down in the jazz district," she said, as way of explanation. "Nice to meet you both."
    "See ya in a bit man," Drew said, draping his arm over her shoulder and walking away past the desk.
}
    I turned back to Mike and noticed an orderly behind the desk who stared at him uneasily. He had started pacing, twitching, and his eyes had widened.
    "Mike, are you doing all right?" she asked.
    "Oh, nurse, this is just great, here's my friend Kevin and he just met Drew and and, yeah!"
    "Come here Mike," she said, reaching beneath the desk.
    Her hand came up with a little pill, pinched between two fingers. She arched her arm high so Mike looked up and then she lowered the pill towards him. Mike opened his mouth, tongue poking out, and she placed the pill on his tongue, like the priest gave communion hosts to the old people at mass.
    "Thanks Mike," she said, smiling and turning back to her desk.
    Mike turned back towards me, face returning to the plasticity I had noticed when I came into the ward. Cheeks and jaw relaxed, lips curled into a smile, teeth set. Eyes placid, clear, open but held firmly in sockets. His eyebrows raised slightly.
    "Hey, man, you cool?" he said.
    "Yeah, I'm all right. What puzzle were you at earlier?" I inclined my head toward the room with the bubble glass.
    "Oh, just a picture of the Rockies. I was talking to Beth. Let's head to my room."
    He led me down the blond people had gone down. The room was spare, clean. The walls were an inoffensive sea green and the linens were fresh and white on the two single beds. There was a bathroom in the back: a typical hospital room. We sat opposite each other, a person to a bed.
    "This place doesn't seem so bad," I said. 
    Mike looked down at my feet.
    "No, it's grown on me. Some of the people in here are scary but mostly I can talk to them."
    "Seems like you and Drew get along well."
    "Yeah, and Beth too."
    "Yeah?"
    "Yeah," he chuckled.
    "What?"
    "Well, one of the nurses caught us the other night."
    I looked at him.
    "We've gotten to know each other pretty well. Apparently the patients aren't supposed to leave their rooms at night, much less have sex."
    I looked at his face. Still drugged, but no tells giving away a lie. We'd talked about girls before, but only in a boys school way. Hyperbole and exaggeration mixed with anxious confession and veiled pleas for advice. Mostly we talked about intellectual and artistic pursuits. Mike had been sheltered, more than me even, and I had liked that he would rather talk about science fiction novels and albums than his latest plans for conquest. We were a minority in our school, which was dominated by athletes and focused on turning out high-achieving alumni who would donate money once they assumed the roles of their business-minded fathers. With sex removed from the classroom, there was a sort of camaraderie that developed. Small groups talked about girls at lunch, but otherwise we were all about the friendly competition for grades and scores.
    I glanced out the door, uncomfortable.
    "Those drugs they gave you must have improved your game," I said.
    He laughed. "Anti-anxiety drugs, among other staples," he said, "mood-stabilizers and anti-psychotics with meals, but they give out Xanax like candy."
    "Is that what the nurse gave you just now?" I said.
    "Yeah," he said.
    I took a deep breath.
    "Hey, Mike, I didn't realize that blotter would affect you the way it did. I'm sorry."
    He smiled a half-smile, looking towards the wall.
    "It's all right, dude, seriously. I just took too much, is all."
    "I only took two hits of that stuff and got, well, you were there. Tracers, bubbling surfaces, and I nearly killed you guys with that mortar." He laughed, a bit of nervous energy creeping back into his face.
    "I can't imagine taking more than I did," I said.
    "Well, I took two at first, and didn't feel them after a couple hours. No visuals. So I took three more."
    "Three more?!"
    "Yeah. I think the first two were LSA or something else, not acid. I started really getting out there after five hours from the second drop. Visions illustrating that stuff I told you about over the phone."
    "Demons and St. Paul and all that?" 
    He nodded.
    "Damn."
    He reached into his bag by the side of the bed and pulled out a pack of rolling tobacco. He started rolling, an automatic process for him.
    "I don't know, man. I believed all that, that I was the reincarnation of St. Paul sent to realize the kingdom and defeat demons. The doctor calls that megalomania, or something."
    He licked his cigarette, smoothed it into a uniform tube.
    "Want one?" he asked.
    "No, I'm all right. They let you smoke here?"
    "Yeah, smokers get to go outside. I mean, anybody can go outside when the smokers do, but the nurses only open the patio when enough people want to go out there. I'd say we get a smoke break every twenty minutes or so."
    He put his cigarette behind his ear. "Wanna go see if we can get some air?"
    "Sure."
    We got up in awkward unison and went out into the hall. The door to the patio was through the TV room. A few patients were watching a baseball game on TV. In the corner, a man was staring at the wall with a confused expression.
    "What's up, Dave?" Mike asked.
    "Did this wallpaper change since yesterday or the day before?" Dave asked.
    Mike shook his head. "No, it's the same as it's been since I got here on Friday."
    "Really? I could swear it looks different. Like before there were swirling patterns and now it's just this checkered pattern?"
    Mike laughed. "That ECT must have really zapped you, man. The wallpaper's the same."
    A couple patients by the TV laughed in assent.
    "You want to have a smoke?" Mike asked.
    "Yeah," Dave said.
    One of the patients watching TV got up, went to the door and motioned to the nurse at the desk. She scanned the room and came around the desk with some keys.
    Once we were outside -- Mike, Dave, me, and all but one of the patients in the TV room -- the other patients broke off into a group making fun of Dave and asking him how his ECT went. We listened for a bit while carrying on a brief conversation about the August weather, until I realized that ECT meant electro-shock treatment.
    "So," I said, "is ECT as bad as it's made out to be?"
    "I guess." Mike said. "Dave's world got a bit less colorful, but the other people who have been zapped since I've been in here seem to be all right. Beth might get ECT. She's more depressed than anyone I've met."
    "And you slept with her?"
    "Sure, that was one of the things we bonded over. After they drugged me down from my religious delusions, my life was suddenly much less meaningful, and I felt like shit."
     "She's been depressed for a long while, stopped responding to her medications a while ago and her family finally realized she was just staying in bed all day, failing out of school, and sent her here. She's responding to medication, but I think someone paying attention and just talking to her helps most. She doesn't trust the doctors, and her counselor is just someone her parents pay to be nice to her."
    He took a long drag from his cigarette.
    "She has bipolar disorder. I've been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, too, and substance abuse problems," Mike said, exhaling smoke. "I've been responding to my medications, getting better, so I'll be out soon. Beth, I'm not so sure. She said her parents want her to try ECT because it worked on her mom's postnatal depression."
    My mom had never had ECT, but an aunt had. She still seemed depressed most of the time, or perhaps just oppressed by her many children.
    Mike stood puffing, thinking, waiting for me to reply but not too concerned that I hadn't.
    "Do you think she needs it?" I asked.
    "No, I think she just needs to drop out of school and paint. You should see what she did in art therapy the other day. But her parents won't let her. They say she should study something practical so she'll have good job prospects or meet a guy who will."
    "What's she studying?"
    "Biology," he said. He stubbed out his cigarette. "Pre-Med. Let's go back inside and see if her parents are gone yet."
    We walked in past the nurse at the door and saw Beth and her family at the front desk. Her mom looked like she was about to cry, her dad was handing papers to the nurse, her little brother looked like he was trying to think about something else and failing, and Beth looked sad and dejected, sullen and defeated. She turned to see us walking through the door into the central reception space and started crying.
    Mike froze and turned to me. He spoke, looking at me and projecting his voice.
    "Beth, this is my friend Kevin, the guy I was telling you about."
    Her family turned and she composed herself, reaching out for a handshake.
    "Hi, Kevin," she said softly as I shook her hand and smiled weakly.
    Her parents glared at us. Her brother looked amused.
    "Are you going to get zapped?" Mike asked.
    Her mother and father both made noises, sad and angry.
    "Yes," she said. I recognized the same fatalistic expression on her face I had seen on my mother's years before.
    "Mike, let's go finish that puzzle you were at before," I said, taking Mike's arm. "It was nice to meet you, Beth."
    Mike shook me off and went to hug Beth.
    "Nurse!" her father said.
    Over Mike's shoulder, Beth said, "Dad, Mom, Mike and I had sex. We had a simultaneous orgasm. In the afterglow, I was the happiest I can remember being since childhood. I even laughed when the nurse came in and caught us, me straddling him."
    Mike broke the hug to look at her. She glared past him at her gaping parents. Mike turned around, ignoring the nurse holding a pill for him.
    "I might not remember him after my ECT," she said, "but I want to make sure you do."
    Their eyes bored into Mike. Twitching again, he turned back to Beth.
    "Hey, uh, let's go work on that puzzle," Mike said.
    "Mike," the nurse said, "first I think it's time for your medicine."

Start with the intake so the scene in the receiving room is maintained; "establish sense of place"
Explain why people with drug problems go to mental hospitals instead of rehab
Cut out the lame duck observing narrator; Mike as narrator
Develop Beth from the start
Develop a roommate character instead of a visitor; one who talks a lot, saw someone get stabbed
Prostitute in the lunchroom offering her skills for a place to stay once she gets out (Beth?)
Case of mistaken identity
Andy

    I drank from the drinking fountain near the corner of the hallway by the bathrooms. We were switching back to homeroom after going to the other fourth grade classroom for math. At the end of passing period no one else was in the halls.
    I heard a taunt from behind me. Someone else was in the hall. It was Andy. I hated him. He always picked on me. After fighting with Andy for years my temper had started to cool but if he tried hard enough he could still stoke my temper. He was going through his usual list of insults. I kept drinking but in the pan of the drinking fountain I could see my face had started to turn red. I tilted my head to the left and let Andy see my narrowed eyes and set jaw. I stopping slurping and started to turn back toward Andy and our classroom.
    [He said something mean about my mom. I can’t remember what but it was a new one for Andy.] He saw my face get even redder and my eyes burn. Andy bounced on the balls of his feet and started to turn with his satisfied squeak. I started after him. Andy ran faster. I ran faster. We were through the classroom door and Andy started to slow down. I didn’t. Right when we were in front of Mrs. Boyer’s desk my out-stretched hands caught up to Andy. I pushed him into the empty desk at pod two. He fell shoulder-first into the chair and desk but only the chair gave way and the other three kids at the pod jumped up as their desks shook.
    Mrs. Boyer was about my height, old and squat. She grabbed me by the arm and dragged me outside the classroom, a few feet to the left of the door so no one in the classroom could hear us. Sounds of reaction had just begun to sputter into the hall. I was heaving and a few hot tears were running down my face.
    “Jimmy, this is unacceptable,” Mrs. Boyer said.
    I held back a tear.
    “What got into you? What happened?”
    Mrs. Boyer seemed taller than usual. She stuck out her tongue to wet her lips like she always did. Her tongue was a fat dry orangish pink sponge with deep cracks on the sides that made her look like a dehydrated lizard. By now my anger had melted into shame.
    [“You can’t fight like this anymore, Jimmy.”
    “I . . . didn’t mean . . . he . . .”
    “It’s all right. But if something like this happens again, you’re going to the principal’s office and you’ll have to start seeing the counselor again. Next time I won’t be so nice.”]
      I lowered my head, breathing slower but eyes still hot. Mrs. Boyer had returned to her normal height. [I followed her back into the classroom and sat down at my desk and stared at it for the rest of the day.]
 
    {It was August, humid and hot. Inside the air conditioner was running, but Dad wouldn’t set it lower than eighty so I was wearing a big tee-shirt and long basketball shorts. I had just finished watching Spiderman and was playing the football game on the old Apple II computer my Dad brought home from work. David walked in. David is my cousin, my mom’s nephew. He was staying at our house because we lived a block away from his high school and his parents lived forty minutes away by car. He was a freshman and trying out for the football team. They had been having practice before and after school. He smelled like he had been mowing the lawn all day and looked angry and sad and dirty. I wanted to play football and be like him. I had to get up to let him by because the computer chair was too close to the sofa and was blocking his way. He ignored me and went to take a shower.}

    [The next week Andy and I were in the counselor’s office. We had been exchanging insults in the halls and threatening violence so the teachers had begun supervising the students when we went to the drinking fountain and bathroom. After a particularly nasty exchange that escalated to pushing before it was broken up we were sent to work out our differences. I knew the counselor well. Or rather, the office well. There had been a younger woman there last year but she left. The new counselor was older and more experienced. She had worked with each of us individually before and been frustrated. Now we were in there together and she must have been desperate for some breakthrough. We talked about our home lives. Both our parents fought. Andy’s family was much more dysfunctional than mine, I found. He would get beat. I got spanked, but he would get beat up. His dad, and then his step-dad, would just wail on him.]
 
    Spiderman was over and it was time to do homework. I still hadn’t changed out of my school uniform because Spiderman started right after I got home from school and I wasn’t going to miss any of Spiderman just to change my clothes. I took my backpack into the dining room and got out my worksheets. Mom was making a casserole in the kitchen. I sat at the table facing the kitchen with my back to the wall so I could see her as well as she could see me. As I defined vocabulary words and did multiplication tables I could hear the knife on the cutting board, the water falling into the sink from the faucet, the creak of the oven door opening and closing, the timer turning to the time the recipe book suggested.
    I finished my homework and my mom told me to go upstairs and change my clothes so I didn’t stain my white uniform shirt at dinner. After I took off my uniform I laid down on my bed on my stomach with my chin resting on the edge of the bed so I stared at the floor. I heard my sisters in the next room, arguing over whose clothes were whose.
             
    [After I found out about Andy’s home life our fights stopped. He still would try to make me angry and we’d exchange words but it wouldn’t go beyond that. He started to give up after I said some hurtful words and other kids stepped in to take his place in my life and mine in his. I never mentioned his home life in class.
    I saw the abuse for myself, diluted in the parking lot after school. He went to after-school care and I had been in detention for talking back to my teacher. His mom came to pick him up. She seemed angry and grabbed him by the scruff of his neck and dragged him out to the car. He yelped the whole way.]
 
    We lived on High Drive in a stone ranch house. The yard was big, long and narrow like a football field. The people behind us had a huge lot with woods in the back but I wasn’t supposed to go back there because they had mean dogs. Most of our neighbors were old people who had pets and didn’t go outside much. There were some kids down the block at the bottom of the creek bed but I wasn’t allowed to play with them because they were older and into drugs. So I played by myself or with my sisters when we weren’t angry at each other. I had grown a lot that year and wasn’t short anymore, just lanky. I wanted to be a defensive lineman so I could sack the quarterback and celebrate afterwards like Warren Sapp on the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. They had the coolest uniforms and were awesome because their mascot is a pirate.
    I would go outside and play in the front yard even though my mom didn’t like me to because she thought I would get abducted. I would line up and get down into a three-point stance like the yard was a football field and after the down-set-hike I would burst off the line and swing my arm up like I was blowing past the offensive lineman and go in for the sack, shoulder down and arms swinging up. My dad pulled in the driveway and I told him I was playing defensive end and he looked like he wasn’t as excited about it as I was. My mom came out and told us to come inside for dinner. Afterward we would go back outside and throw the football around until it got dark and it was time for him to get out his papers from his briefcase and start working again.
 
    Saturday I was bored at home. My mom was busy with dinner and keeping my sisters in line by yelling at them from the bottom of the stairs. Nothing was on TV and I had just spent my thirty minutes on AOL for the day. I snuck out into the front yard and sat down on the steps and stayed perfectly still. I started to notice more and more around me as time passed. Birds and squirrels in the trees, bugs in the flower bed next to me, the varieties of plants, a chipmunk that wandered close, a bird that alighted close by. I got up and walked down to the woods around the creek, feeling close to nature.
    [In the distance I saw some kids behind some scraggly evergreen trees. It smelled faintly of burning tires, though I’d never smelled that before. Andy was there, with my neighbors who lived on the creek. They were giggling and passing something around. They noticed me and got quiet for a second.
    “Oh, it’s just that little spoiled brat form up the hill.”
    I didn’t say anything, just looked at them and wondered what they were doing. They asked me if i wanted a hit. I thought that meant they wanted to fight so I said sure and raised my fists. They laughed and told Andy to oblige me. He came at me. We tussled and eventually I slammed him into a tree. The neighbors were laughing, hooting, slapping themselves.] 
    I felt bad for Andy then, seeing him crying outside of school, whining in his high voice that got him so much grief. He didn’t have any friends or family really, just people who abused him for fun. I helped him up and he pushed me away crying and walked back towards my still-laughing neighbors.

    After that Andy and I avoided each other. He left at the end of the year to go to public school. School was calmer after he left. There was still bullying and name-calling but football had started and all physical aggression came out on the practice field after school.
Catholic school kids, freshman, go to CHicago for a weekend and stay in a hotel room having great sex. They go back to Milwaukee where the guy goes to school and go to Mass, girl starts bawling during.
"We shouldn't be here, we're going to hell"
Anecdote
What's the point? Where's the moment of reflection?
By this quote I think Gocskik means that screen literacy has become a valuable and necessary skill without the influence of academia and to remain current and relevant -- to fulfill the mission of education -- teachers must make use of new media. The overlaps are manifold, I think, though I was print literate and an obsessive reader of books and news before the web took hold of my habit. I will read a full book online, though I realize this behavior is weird. Blogs and web sites owe their design to print media, and we have film, art, and design studies to inform our understanding of the image, moving or otherwise, in relation to text, which on YouTube for example accompanies the video as context. 

transferability? Snoop Dogg’s Le-Lo mnemonic in Maestro Holland’s class
remediation - moving content from one medium to another (memo to email, journal to blog)
STAY FROSTY
engagement - Romeo & Juliet on Facebook?
DESIGN
Generally, yes, I do see value in composing new media in college courses. As more coursework moves online, and as most is also relevant to a broader public than just the class, posting written coursework to blogs seems natural. I have done this before, on my own, with my Writing the Self class. The worry is plagiarism, that someone will steal my work to pass off as their own. With technologies to protect against plagiarism well-developed, and such material a search engine away, I don’t think of this as a major drawback, considering the advantages. A richer discourse seems inevitable from such sharing. Screen literacy also increases, as unfamiliar students must learn to use new tools.
American military aide to India to combat Naxals?

How can I invest in emerging markets like China, Brazil, Indonesia, and India? Buy currency? Buy company stock?
Buy, or follow, some S&P 500 -- talk with Bobby and build portfolios

Google has become a diffuse portal -- see the App ecosystem, iGoogle, etc.

Angel investments are smaller; VC series A investments require some fancy shit like a board of directors

Integrate a topical twitter search into a page (BP!)

Free plans don’t help conversion rates into paid customers; if you want to make money on something, ask for money upfront

“For you, young programmer, the right kind of company is not that insanely difficult, high risk company! It’s a simple product company that has a large market and that will pay your bills quickly. That’s EASY to build with the talents you have, and it WILL satisfy your needs.”
AT THE EDGE OF THE WORLD

Gill sat at a lamp-lit bar called The Ark in Cairo. He ordered another drink.
ANNA: “Gill, after this one I’m cutting you off.”
GILL: “Ah, come on barkeep! I’ve got another story for you, better than all the other ones, swear. You’ll want to make me another and one for yourself, after you hear it.”
ANNA: “I have one already.”
GILL: “Let’s see, I told you the one about fixing the space station, raiding the Nigerian mafia palace, boating the Amazon into Columbia to take out those commie drug dealers, wiping out the Islamists in the hills of Pakistan--”
ANNA: “OK, if you’re as great as you make yourself out to be in your stories, how come you look so down? No offense, but you look like a bum.”
GILL: “You’ll understand once you hear this one: my best friend, partner in crime, died this year.”
ANNA: “I’m sorry to hear that.”
GILL: “It was that last flu epidemic. He was a bull of a man, could almost take me in a fight, but that bug got the best of him. Wasted away with an IV in his arm. He would tear it out whenever he came to.”
Gill finished his drink with a gulp.
ANNA: “Damn.”
GILL: “Don’t you damn him!”
ANNA: “Sorry.”
GILL: “Yeah, right. How’s about that next one?”
Anna motioned over to the doorman.
ANNA: “I think we have someone for the man upstairs.”
GILL: “You mean Noah?”
ANNA: “Yes. This is The Ark, after all. You know him?”
GILL: “If he’s the same Noah I think he is, who hasn’t? He’s a legend.”
ANNA: “Now I’m not so sure I want to send you up there. I thought he could ease your misery with his.”
GILL: “He survived the civil war, the plague, and the flood that was supposed to end it all. Disappeared afterwards, hiding out somewhere...”
ANNA: “Hiding in plain sight. Sounds like you’ve sobered up enough. Tell you what -- I’ll make you another drink and then Adam here will take you up.”

IMMORTALITY DENIED

Adam and Gill walked through a labyrinthine series of hallways above the bar before reaching a nondescript door. Adam opened the door and pushed Gill through.
NOAH: “Who is this cretin?”
ADAM: “Calls himself Gill. Been telling Anna some stories. Seems to know who you are.”
NOAH: “And would I know who you are Gill?”
GILL: “Well, sir, I am also known as G.I. Bill and my last name is Gamesh.”
NOAH: “I suspected as much. Nice to meet you.”
They shook hands over Noah’s desk.
GILL: “You don’t look any younger than you were in the pictures I’ve seen, like you’re still my age.”
NOAH: “True. And I suppose you came to find out how? To find out if the rumors are true?”
GILL: “Right. My friend, you might know him as The Kid, died of that last flu. I’ve killed scores of people but his death scared me. I don’t want to die like that.”
NOAH: “I heard he was a great man. I’m sorry for your loss.”
GILL: “Well, thank you.”
Gill finished his drink.
GILL: “So you think you could help me out with this whole not dying thing?”
Noah laughed.
NOAH: “Let me tell you what I had to endure to earn this life extension. You may have heard or suspected. I engineered the dam break at Three Gorges that ended the chaos. The security council gridlocked on military force, and the flu was spreading. A flood seemed the best option.”
GILL: “Not to the Chinese.”
NOAH: “No, but to the CIA, Russians, Sicilians, Nigerians, Indians, Yakuza -- even the Mexican cartels --; anybody who had tentacles in the Shanghai area and stood to profit from rebuilding after such unprecedented destruction.”
GILL: “A conspiracy from the underworld.”
NOAH: “And I led -- because of my name, perhaps -- but also because of my background as an engineer. We’re both engineers gone bad.”
GILL: “I never thought to question Uncle Sam’s morality until recently. I’m just Special Forces.”
NOAH: “A bit beyond that from what I’ve heard. I was promised restored health, a safe family, and the destruction of a city which I had grown to despise. Seemed righteous enough to me.”
GILL: “Your family?”
NOAH: “My son, with me to help manage the detonations, survived. The rest of my family -- my wife, my younger sons, my young daughters, all... I had made arrangements with people I thought I could trust. In the aftermath--”
GILL: “I’m sorry. Anna told me you could relate-- I didn’t realize.”
NOAH: “The Americans were apologetic. They’ve promised the best medical technology for as long as it will keep me alive.”
GILL: “So you have immortality.”
NOAH: “I do not derive much comfort from my situation.”
Gill looked to Noah for an answer and found only a brooding visage.
NOAH: “Acquire great wealth, take care of your body, and procreate. Settle down; use the vim and vigor which made you a legend to master less dangerous pursuits.”
GILL: “Sounds boring.”
NOAH: “I have given you the secret to immortality. Do these things, and you will not fear death. Adam, take care of him, please. Excellent to meet, you, famous Gill.”

DISCUSSION

I have taken two sections from the standard epic and attempted to adapt them for the 21st century. My Gilgamesh, Gill, took the form of a character like James Bond, or a protagonist in a Tom Clancy novel. I chose to expand the scene with the innkeeper, now rendered as a scene in a bar, and cut the crossing of the sea and Waters of Death. With inspiration from the Egyptian flood myth I decided that the closest the story would come to including the Waters of Death would be including alcohol as a prop.
I changed most the character of Uta-napishti, here with the more familiar Hebrew name Noah. As much as I love the characters of the gods and semi-divine beings in ancient myth, and the works of Neil Gaiman, who writes the gods as real but very human characters, I decided to keep my world devoid of embodied divine presence. The role of the gods in the epic I give to the powerful conglomerations of people which rule our secular world. This seemed like the most apt and intellectually honest metaphor.
If I had to write the myth over again I might try divine agency, or -- to stick with the contemporary, science-fictional bent -- using global warming, the combined consequence of our unchecked technological progress. Indeed, after I had begun down the road I chose I read about the recent deluge in Pakistan and the lack of coverage it garnered in mainstream American media. Other considerations included a hurricane, tsunami, or other natural water-storm intensified by rising global temperatures.
The route I did choose reflects inspiration from the Egyptian Flood Myth and my readings of tragedy. The cycle of corruption and rebirth, destruction and creation, seems universal enough to extrapolate into any imagined future. In keeping with solely human agents taking the place of gods, the most straightforward way to cause a deluge would be to destroy a dam, and the Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River in China, completed recently, is the largest in the world. Shanghai, now a large, diverse, growing metropolis in China with a long history, could conceivably become a future site of civil unrest and incubator of disease.
Speculating on future medical technology that might extend lifespans indefinitely seemed beyond the scope of this assignment. I hope that assuming the development of such a technology within the 21st century was not too optimistic.
OUTLINE
Constant struggle between worried gatekeeper parents and peer-impressed, curious child
All of this is so contingent on wealth - competition among kids; who consumed what first
Using media as a way to feel out people’s values, ethics, feelings towards controversial topics
Saving money by working outside to buy video games and build my own computer
-flyered the neighborhood using word processing skills I had acquired (in school?)

DOOM with Brent
MTV music generator/simulator on Playstation
The Sims, No One Lives Forever, Counter-Strike
Playing alone vs playing with others
Star Wars movie marathon party at Kevin Schwartz
Interest in music and advertising coincided with the onset of puberty
Sneaking MTV and BET once we got cable, pretending to watch History and Discovery

Lord of the Rings, fantasy and scifi, Tom Clancy and Robert Ludlum from the library and uncles
USA Today; losing my appetite on vacation from pictures of suicide bomb victims while reading Clear and Present Danger in a creepy house and seeing a Bentley
Reading textbooks and perfecting passive recall for multiple choice tests
In school: Oregan Trail; Mavis Beacon typing program; learning Microsoft Office and making an alphabetical list of what’s important to me as an 8th grader
Started to see myself as a capable writer thanks to Mrs. Heid in 7th and 8th grade
Wrote that behemoth summary of the Lebanese Civil War

Slashdot, Kottke
Napster, Kazaa, Limewire, Bittorrent for music and movies
Blogger, Xanga
Tom Clancy, 9/11
KC Star, Channel One
Pitchfork, The AV Club
the Belgariad, Harry Potter
Bill Clinton / Monica Lewinsky
Catholic sex abuse
Atemporality; constant shift in timespace context
Facebook, Twitter
Wordpress, Tumblr
Python, PHP
Google, Linux
Homer, Plato
Netscape, Firefox, Safari, Chrome
Going to the Library; various scholastic competitions
On Charles C. Chiasson’s “Herodotus’ Use of Attic Tragedy in the Lydian Λόγος”
	Herodotos contextualizes himself in his Histories by “describing his text as ἱστορίης ἀπόδεξις (a demonstration/display/proof of research)—terms that in Rosalind Thomas’ view belong to a new language of scientific inquiry that is native to fifth-century Ionia” (5). By weaving together “the κλέος of heroic deeds” Herodotos invites comparison to Homer’s poetry (6).  But in his prologue Herodotos irreverently renders the old stories of princess snatchings and the resultant war. He shows little regard for referents in his indirect discourse, perhaps emphasizing Greek-Trojan similarity. Herodotos sets himself apart from his predecessors by his skepticism towards oral and poetic accounts. He balances a “critical, historiographical response” and “poetically stylized,” “imaginative recreation” (30).
	Herodotos first references neither epic poet nor playwrite but Archilochus— a contemporary of Gyges, who mentions him in iambic verse. Choosing a poet who wrote in the first person hints that Herodotos knows how his self-referential prose sets him apart from tradition. Still, the over-arching structure of the Croesus λόγος resembles an epic more than a tragedy, though tragedy dominates the plot. Herodotos critically assesses popular traditions; Chiasson contrasts Bacchylides, who portrays Croesus in his third epinician ode as a generous aristocrat beloved by Apollo.
With a nod to scholars Page and Snell, Chiasson suggests that Herodotos used tragic motifs to engage his audience, taking liberties with material from a contemporary Gyges drama. Chiasson breaks the narrative into acts based on sentences noting the passage of time. Only two of these five acts include dialog, namely those involving the fateful decisions given to Gyges to ogle Candaules’ wife and to kill Candaules. In stage drama these scenes would not have been acted out in the level of detail to which Herodotos describes them, suggesting Herodotos imagined them for his narrative. To satisfy credulity Herodotos notes that Gyges had a faction supporting the consultation of the Delphic oracle which justified his rule. Compared to other accounts, Herodotos’ Gyges shows much more reluctance.
Chiasson and Snell see a parallel in the Gyges and Candaules story to an Aeschylean motif in which a character must choose between two evils under compulsion. In Aeschylus a god compels, but in Herodotos a mortal does. The hierarchical relationship remains the same. The queen’s revenge emphasizes cultural differences between Herodotos’ audience of Greek πολῖται and the βάρβαροι ruled by a δεσπότης and δέσποινα. The bad end which visits Candaules suggests that hierarchy self-defeats and, thus, Greek superiority. His subversion of extant motifs brings attention to human issues of government, politics, and culture.
Deborah Boedeker characterizes Herodotos by his “self-conscious critical engagement with other authors and/or literary kinds” (4). While relating tragedy, Herodotos refrains from including the characteristic ‘voice-markers’ which indicate his consideration of sources. These markers tend to break the narrative spell and implication of fiction. In addition to acknowledged influence from Archilochus, Chiasson notes that Herodotos and Sophocles were friends who shared an interest in the superlative.
This Sophoclean influence on Herodotos best suggests itself in the story of Atys and Adrastus. This episode in the Croesus λόγος ends with Adrastus cutting his throat upon Atys’ grave. Herodotos characterizes Adrastus in this moment as “recognizing that, of all men, he himself knew he bore the heaviest burden of misfortune” — συγγινωσκόμενος ἀνθρώπων εἶναι τῶναὐτὸς ᾔδεε βαρυσυμφορώτατος (1.45.3). This sentence, according to Chiasson, exemplifies “the common Herodotean idiom that combines a superlative adjective, a partitive genitive, and a form of the verb οἶδα with an emphatic pronoun as subject” (15). The emphatic pronoun and verbs of knowing also mark Herodotos’ interjections as a historian: “Thus Herodotus' evocation of the tragic paradigm culminates in a final narrative gesture that recasts the tragic hero as a kind of histor; in this way Herodotus' new genre of historie appropriates and subsumes the voice of tragedy as its own” (17).
Judging by the precedent set by this sad story, Croesus should come to a nasty end. But again, Herodotos subverts audience expectation. His tragic, epic history includes oracles and omens misunderstood and ignored, the wise and cautious adviser Solon spurned, and various political asides. In the end Herodotos presents a scene reminiscent of book 24 of the Iliad, with Croesus in the role of Priam and Cyrus II as Achilles. Chiasson also compares this scene with Aeschylus’ play Agamemnon. Cyrus II lights a pyre for Croesus, who “appears to follow closely in Cassandra's footsteps in his progression from silence to invocation to unintelligible utterance to full disclosure” (27). Croesus remembers and discloses Solon’s council in the end and saves his own life. When Cyrus decides to spare Croesus the fire is already aflame, reminiscent of Sophocles’ Antigone when Creon realizes he’s wrong and rushes to free Antigone from her tomb. Chiasson says Herodotos here “invests time with the same dramatic function” as do the tragedians (26). However, our hero does not die but, according to ‘some Lydians,’ Apollo saves him with a sudden rainstorm. “Herodotus' mediated reporting of the scene by means of indirect discourse, with specific acknowledgment of the Lydian tradition of the king's divine rescue, demonstrates the interest in source criticism (when such is possible and meaningful) that makes Herodotus a critic as well as an heir of the Greek poetic tradition” (31).
Xerxes’ imperialism against Greece culminates Herodotos’s pattern in which a “monarch suffers unwittingly self-inflicted defeat despite admonitions from gods and men” (31). Aeschylus’ Persae set specific theatrical precedent for the Persian council scene at the beginning of Book 7. Xerxes first speech puts his Greek campaign in line with past Persian imperialism. Herodotos contradicts Aeschylus on the point of Xerxes’s hubris but pays homage at the speech’s climax —  using the image of the yoke which “serves as a recurrent image of despotic Persian power” (32). Herodotos’s ambivalence towards precedent shows in his presentation of previous interpretations but suggestions of others.
Hayden White asserts that historians unwittingly use “patterns of meaning similar to those more explicitly provided by the literary art of the cultures to which they belong;” counter-point Chiasson: “I suggest that at the very beginning of the historiographic tradition Herodotos self-consciously exploits culturally provided mythoi [...] as a backdrop against which to define and demonstrate the distinctive methods, interests, and intentions of his own innovative discourse” (32).
Begin by scrolling down the main page and skimming the posts sequentially as they appear, latest to oldest
I opened the link “Embarrassing Previous Versions of my Website” in a new tab
The post “The phone is the new pen and paper” grabbed my attention and I started reading closely. Finished found the findings interesting
Decide to read the new tab I created
I scrolled through the images and found the caption under the last and current site picture most readable and relevant.
I scrolled back up to the top and started reading the captions for each site iteration
I agree with the author that Adobe Flash SUCKS
From her site I visited the site of the team who built her Content Management System
Then I read their FAQ and clicked through to the individual portfolio sites of those involved
Now the clicking and reading has slowed to vague miasma and I’ve lost interest. Maybe I’ll come back later and look at these tabs. END
A typed narrative explaining how the course fulfills the spirit of the general education requirement
All students at Whitman College must take Antiquity and Modernity, also known as General Studies 145 & 146, or, more colloquially, Core. Core requires newcomers to Whitman to engage with ‘great books’ through reading, writing, and in-class discussion. From the General Studies department syllabus -- “The course will examine some of the important individuals and events which have significantly shaped, reshaped, and challenged these worldviews;” those being “dominant” in our culture, “but also competing and alternative visions.”
	For a full consideration of these alternative visions, Whitman offered a class beyond the two semester Core requirement, which I did not get the chance to take. Nevertheless, my professor, Tom Davis, brought a critical take to everything we read, without offending. He punctuated his subversive suggestions with a knowing cackle. By the end of the second week, I knew his sense of humor well enough to contribute when classmates were intimidated and share in his humor. His knowledge of Greek and position as the head of the philosophy department helped us with equal aplomb through The Odyssey and the Christian scriptures. Core was my favorite course in my first semester of college. After I had to return home on medical leave during my second semester, I eagerly finished the assignments that I missed. Professor Davis deserves some credit for my choice to major in Humanities.
	The Humanities and Western Civilization Program website claims their course offerings “are centrally committed the College's and University's goal of educating students to think critically, speak and write articulately, and display intellectual and cultural breadth.” The Program shares this goal with Whitman College’s General Studies department. I find in them a shared spirit. In the words of Professor Tom Davis: “Why is it important that [important texts from the beginning of the Western tradition] ‘speak to you’? Because they have shaped you without your knowing how, and it’s important to discover the ways that has already taken place.” I am proud to engage in this lifelong task here at the University of Kansas.
First I see the banner, with an ad for some Chase reward getaway to see some musician I’ve never heard of in Paris. I wouldn’t have noticed this top element of the page if I hadn’t accidentally rolled over and caused my screen to be taken over by the ad, which I click out of as soon as possible. Then I see I am on WIRED.com and they’ve got a menu and I pan over that down to MAGAZINE so I’m reading a past magazine feature. Scrolling down I grok the article is about the company ThinkGeek and they sell Unicorn Meat now, which I suppose is meant to be edgy and funny. The whole right column is full of distracting muck like links to the rest of the site and ads. The first bit of text is bold and sans serif like the rest of the page content, probably Arial. There’s a nice graph showing me that ThinkGeek has been steadily making more money over the years. I scroll down the page skimming and see a Star Trek pizza cutter. Once the text ends I’ve got the option to click to the next page or get the whole article on one page. I scroll down past more clutter and see a positive customer review of ThinkGeek. The whole article strikes me as advertising.
There are black bars throughout the page to set off distinct elements. The first black bar is the navigation menu which links to the rest of Wired’s site. This contrasts with the white background and black text, probably meant to lend the text an aura of seriousness. The white text in some of the black bars captions nearby images and is easily ignored. Different visual stimuli like the video in the middle of the article and the various product-photo-placements give the reader a break from the text at regular intervals. Distinct sections of text begin with a few bold words to clue the skimming reader to fresh takes on the topic. Links are blue to offset them from black text.
This piece sells the ethos of ThinkGeek pretty hard. Granted, Wired’s readership has probably already heard of ThinkGeek and may even have purchased something from them, so the article highlights some of their more off-beat offerings and gives insight into the company’s culture and financial success. So you can geek out about ThinkGeek. Visually, I have a hard time considering this piece any more than an advertisement, and so probably does not criticize the company at all. Maybe an iPhone-toting venture capitalist would look into the company a bit more before investing. I am not sure how Wired’s site looks on phone browsers but I would imagine they’ve sunk some money into making it presentable. There is an emphasis on images and video for those less interested in reading and more into scrolling, clicking, and buying.
	Most of what Wysocki says about the Wired page in her analysis applies here, except for comments on the magazine’s paper quality. Wired hasn’t changed much since I stopped subscribing in middle school. There website occasionally has interesting articles but the predominance of articles like these accounts for why I stopped reading.

London’s ideas of race and superiority seem based on interactions between whites descended from Scandinavians and people indigenous to Alaska who resemble Asians. Major differences seem more cultural and technological than physical and mental -- cannot both handle cold well enough to survive and reproduce?
Consider alcohol as a weapon: Europeans grew with it, natives didn’t
Indigenous people live more harmoniously with their environment - John Thorton most successful at surviving in the wild adopted native ways (Call of the Wild).
The combative, mercenary Europeans kill and subjugate many natives probably leading to London’s superficial reassertion of whites as the ultimate individual predator in the northland (analogy with polar bear seems here apt)(see “whitest man” comment in “To the Man on the Trail”).
Otherwise the comparison seems to be made that wolves : dogs :: whites : natives
Does he subvert this in White Fang? Or in any of his short stories?

London was a socialist concerned with the North so probably would be interested in the social democracies of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Finland
Malmute Kid across stories
uses generic protagonists but are they implicitly white due to his audience?
issues of experience and imagination, hubris
Instinct versus learned behavior; epigenetics like in Love of Life (LOL)
origins of religion, gods like you, reflect racial differences (no such thing); Prometheus
Eat or be Eaten; The Law of Meat; The Law of Club and Fang
man as god to dog; henotheism; covenant; duty and awe; love over hate
once you’ve seen the light your ignorance is forever destroyed

Does London attribute to white men worse morals?

White Fang learns henotheism when he bites a human child who prevents him from eating meat scraps and receieves defense from his master. Then he defends his master’s son from the boy he bit and his friends and gets ample reward, reinforcing this new-found law (pt. 3 ch. 5).

He goes white when? Part 4 - ch 1 meets whitey, ch 2 gets taken by whitey

Today, we know that genetic differences between individual humans are small and the most significant differences between peoples are cultural, constructed, and mutable. In London’s view, white seems synonymous with Scandinavian, blond-haired and blue-eyed, natives of the cold European north. 
Technology, also, plays a role in differentiating groups of people. 

I cannot say that London would re-evaluate his position considering his context but in a modern light he would naturally rewrite his stories...

WF recogs whites as superior gods but only comes under their power once GB goes to drink and BS buys him for a bottle of whisky. BS’s a disgusting whitey with sparse yellow hair who uses whitey evil violence to subjugate WF. Weedon Scott gets WF from BS by rescuing him from his match in the dog-fighting ring. 
Jack London, though often read by children in present day curricula, confronts universal concerns within his work. He treats religion, economics, and race through a story focused on a wolf-dog lacking consciousness. Statements with political weight that would cause uproar in academia today he includes with a casual unquestioning air. If London had self-taught in today’s libraries, he might have made different assertions through the innocent lens of his canine protagonist. However, he records the cultural clashes of the North in telling detail.
	The Europeans came to the North to trade and conquer. The natives had lived there for untold years, acclimated to the environment. Indeed, in Call of the Wild, John Thorton masters the wilderness “Indian fashion,” hunting throughout the day (ch. 7). Most other white men, however, rely on their technology for survival. Fur clothing, alcohol, guns, matches, sleds, and domesticated dogs, among other techniques, all help them extract the resources they seek to bring back to the Southland for profit. Whites kill and subjugate natives who interfere with this mission, reinforcing the perception of European superiority. The predatory nature of the European presence leads to an implicit comparison: as wolves are to dogs, whites are to natives.
	London tows this line throughout his stories. In “To the Man on the Trail,” Malmute Kid, when he justifies sending Jack Westondale on his way before the authorities catch up to recover stolen money, says “A whiter man than Jack Westondale never ate from the same pot nor stretched blanket with you or me.” The story begins with a told tale about how a white man gave a native tribe copious amounts of alcohol in order to steal one of their women for a wife. An unnamed white man in the cabin where Westondale stopped accuses him of being “worse than an Indian” once his crimes come to light. Kid further excuses Westondale’s theft noting that he would have been a millionaire if his investor hadn’t blown the money on gambling. This wins the men over, and they toast Westondale.
	Unpacking Malmute Kid’s justification suggests that the comments on race explain Westondale’s sled speed and hardiness, while the actual ramifications of his story illuminate the harsh economic reality of the North. Since no central government or any trappings of civilization govern monetary relations, a brutal laissez-faire anarcho-capitalism reigns. In this context the rapacious, predatory Europeans have the advantage. Now that the frontier era has ended, the First Nations again have sovereignty over northernmost Canada.  London, with his seemingly contradictory dislike for human laws and liberal political leanings, would find fascinating the wealthy, fairly homogeneous liberal democracies of present day Scandinavia. Scandinavians define whiteness, and like all Northern natives have adapted well to their snowy environs. Besides superficial and cultural differences, Scandinavians and more Asiatic Artic natives differed only in their use of technology and capacity for alcohol. We now know how minuscule is the genetic difference between any given set of homo sapiens.
	London makes his most controversial statements about race—to the inclusion of religion—in White Fang, though he seems to subvert the racism of his day through White Fang’s character. This paper begins on White Fang’s first encounter with white men, where he perceives them as the most powerful gods. These white men seem ‘wandering wraiths,’ though seen and clear intentioned (pt. 3 ch. 2). As Xenophanes notes, creatures tend to perceive their gods “as having bodies like their own” (Schmidt 15). But Jack London says, “the wolf and the wild dog that have come in to the fire find their gods in the living flesh, solid to the touch.” And their gods look like apes. Canines cannot physically project their selves into the realm of spirit—as Freud says we do.
	White Fang—three fourths wolf, one fourth dog—becomes a henotheist in part three, chapter five. To be clear, henotheism means recognizing a multitude of gods but honoring one above all others. When an unknown native child prevents him from eating meat scraps White Fang bites him and then receives support from Gray Beaver, his master. He realizes that relations between humans and canines are governed by the humans as they relate to one another—that “he was not compelled to take injustice from the other gods.” His master reinforces this realization when his son, Mit-sah, comes under attack while gathering wood in the forest from the boy White Fang bit and his friends. White Fang defends him and Gray Beaver rewards White Fang with much meat. White Fang falls asleep sated (pt. 3 ch. 5).
	In part four of White Fang, we reach the quote with which this essay begins. The first white master White Fang has, Beauty Smith, buys him for a bottle of whisky and treats him cruelly. London paints him evil: a one-sided character who turns White Fang into a brutal killing machine. Here London seems to acknowledge that though the Europeans have the most power in the North, they do not hold the moral high ground. If London were writing today, perhaps he would not glibly reinforce racist views. Beauty Smith loses White Fang to Weedon Scott, a more noble white character. Regardless of skin tone, the moral high ground wins out in the end.
	If we use London’s own implicit metaphor of wolves and dogs as stand-ins for human beings, and take into account his belief that love overcomes hate—civilizing nurture overcomes base nature—he would probably acknowledge the poverty of his stance on race and ethnicity given the intellectual progress of the intervening years.
	On the other hand, perhaps he would not. London wrote for a broad audience, and tried to capture human relations from a dogs-eye view. This superficial and inhuman view of race relations still holds sway today in popular media. Racism has not gone away but been subsumed and concealed into our common discourse. The fabric of our culture still contains threads of othering. Those unaware of the accidents of genetic mutation and drift still exclude and persecute based on the consequences of those accidents. For someone without education, who has not considered or experienced far outside the realm of superficial day-to-day existence, white privilege may seem natural. Debates over welfare, affirmative action, economics and politics belie this reality. Perhaps the earth nurtured those who lived in moderate climates better than she did those in more extreme ones. But this is no ground for discrimination.
	In the words of George Washington, “If the minority,...is suffered to dictate to the majority,...and their will ... is enacted into a law, there can be no security for life.” The word economy comes from ancient Greek and means ‘the law of the house.’ The economy of the North lacked laws and now even in the United States our house still suffers governance by legal bodies related to those vicious rules by which Europeans colonized America. I would like to think that, nurtured in the present day United States, Jack London would have written with more sensitivity towards issues of privilege and discrimination. But we have no way of knowing for sure: only his work from which to speculate. Given the ethics and sensitivity loosely presented by his language in White Fang, I would conclude that Jack London, reawakened today, would regret his simplistic stories glorifying the white men of the North and make an effort to present a less biased view of their adventures.

Mark Bittner’s The Wild Parrots of Telegraph Hill follows the author through a period of his life devoted to a flock a wild parrots on San Fransisco’s Telegraph Hill. He writes in a first-person casual style indicative of the diaries which served as his source material. The book’s bulk details the intricacies of parrot lives, flock and individual. Though he meets the parrots by fate, his interest in them drives the growth of their relationship. Because his life included few if any people he delves into his own inner life and even into an anthropomorphic consideration of the emotions and interactions of the parrots themselves.
	Through his interactions with the parrots Bittner reveals more than what tells about his personality, or lack thereof. He takes a passive tack, putting faith in “the ancient path of the Spirit,” an impossibly personal and vague guiding principle that seems to justify every self-absorbed, lazy decision he makes. His hesitant snatching of birds in need shows his lack of will and self, though makes him sympathetic as the reader considers their own psychological struggles with necessary actions. After chapters full of tedious details about his slow-to-progress relationship with the parrots, any sympathy his hesitation garners may owe to the reader’s desperation for a pace-change.
	Like the Augustinian Confessions, Bittner’s memoir features inner-dialog directed at a vaguely-defined audience. Though instead of coming to a profound and hard-fought realization upon conclusion, Bittner seems to become more self-confident and -absorbed as others begin to show interest in his connection with the birds. All Bittner seems capable of translating into language goes into the novel. He seems to write in order to give meaning to his life, to gain recognition, to find a mate, and to connect with others now struggling as he did. He punctuates much of his book with his dissatisfaction with his lonely old hippie life. He recognizes he’s a mooch and desires to give back but does not know how. This makes him sympathetic, but could be an addition after the fact.
	Funny how this singular man believes in some great collective beyond. He can only stand his loneliness by tenuous belief in the incomprehensible interconnectedness of all. The parrots tie him to the world more than the property on which he lives or the people he knows. But solitude is a human presumption.
	Bittner reminds us that humans are not the only social animals who communicate with sound and gesture. The parrots at times gain sympathy, too, though that may also be due to the inventions of Bittner. The inhumanity of the parrots remains clear throughout the work. The parallels between parrot and human cognition fascinate, however. The charisma with which they captivated Bittner he translates well into words. To change the pace and help keep readers’ interest Bittner could include more chapters dealing with the science of these parrots, such as how they fit into the local ecosystem. His consideration of bird consciousness primes but does not satisfy.
	These reflections betray my own biases. I come from an extended family in love with animals. However, my nuclear family and myself have had a hell of a time taking care of ourselves and all attempts at pet-having end premature. On an intellectual level I can appreciate that humans and animals share much in common and can form strong bonds. On an emotional level, though, I have enough problems forming and keeping bonds to other human beings. Perhaps animals put less conditions on their love: feed, shelter, and clean them and you’re golden. This seems to me almost selfish, though. Bittner’s relationship with the parrots - except for the obsessive element - appeals to me because the animals remain wild and independent.
I can’t help but think of White Fang, though, and how those birds must consider Mark to be something akin to a god. How much does he realize and get off on this? The difference in scale between human and parrot lives must have made Bittner feel powerful. Perhaps he needed that, as his life up to the point of the parrots had been a disappointment. As a dharma bum I assume that he had many psychedelic experiences (in one of his songs in the documentary trailer he sings about an overdose, which suggests harder drugs), which would help to explain how he ended up adrift. Such drugs can destroy assumptions and ingrained patterns of thinking and are powerful tools which people often use irresponsibly to detrimental effect. I understand why Bittner tells us all about his time with the parrots and how they changed his life, but I feel like he does not provide enough life context for us to understand him. Yes, the parrots are fascinating; and I can not fault Bittner for making them tiresome. For he himself seemed tired and grasping at the last seeds of immanent and meaningful experience left to him.
“Speaking is a beautiful folly: with that man dances over all things” (TSZ 329).
	Bullshit: the digested remains of Dionysus’ ambrosia. I will spell the bull’s name the Roman way because I use a Roman alphabet—and because I dislike the little red line that appears underneath when I transliterate his name from Greek: Dionysos from Διόνυσος. I also drink red wine while I write, to stay mindful and pay tribute.
	We have heard philosophy called bullshit. In the work of Nietzsche, accepting my opening definition, this designation is praise. If all of Western thought amounts to footnotes to Plato, perhaps Nietzsche’s work deserves superscript reference throughout Plato’s Symposium. Nietzsche glorifies intoxication and revelry, seeming to have fun while writing but still maintaining an undercurrent of serious contemplation. Like Socrates, he speculates in provocative directions.
In The Birth of Tragedy Nietzsche concerns himself with the Ancient Greeks, including Plato’s Socrates. His focus, however, rests on aesthetics in Greek tragic drama. “For only as an aesthetic phenomenon is existence and the world eternally justified” (BT 33). For the Greeks, the specific aesthetic phenomenon by which they justified their existence was tragedy: “Thus gods justify the life of men by living it themselves—the only satisfactory theodicy!” (BT 24). The Justification of a Pagan took place on stage, where the most powerful and sublime characters suffered terrible fates that made day-to-day life seem good enough. Nietzsche asserts that this rite grew from the tradition of Dionysian revelers singing legendary deeds of the god which then others acted. The orchestra held the Chorus, with which the spectators identified, and beyond them were the gods and heroes, their actions formalized at the altar (BT §8).
Spectators, like those revelers, lose themselves in spectacle, “all divisions between one human being and another give way to an overwhelming feeling of unity which leads men back to the heart of nature” (BT 39). Nietzsche considers “tragedy as a Dionysian chorus which discharges itself over and over again in an Apollonian world of images” proving that “life is indestructibly mighty and pleasurable” (BT 44, 39). Sophocles understood Oedipus “as the noble human being who is destined for error and misery despite his wisdom, but who, in the end, through his enormous suffering, exerts on the world around him a magical, beneficent force which remains effective after his death.” Sophocles’ interpretation of Oedipus “is nothing other than one of those images of light held out to us by healing nature after we have gazed into the abyss” (BT 47). Indeed, “whoever plunges into the abyss of destruction by what he knows must in return experience the dissolution of nature in his own person” (BT 48).
On the other hand, Socrates goes home at the end of Plato’s Symposium unfazed by the imbibed wine. He has no taste for dissolution. For Socrates, “everything must be conscious in order to be good” and “everything must be comprehensible in order to be beautiful” (BT 64). This attitude leads to moralism, virtue, theoretical optimism, and other poisons. Socrates and Plato thought that tragedy “belonged to the flattering arts, which represent only what is pleasant and not what is useful” (BT 68). What was useful was conscious inquiry, logic, and reason: “Virtue is knowledge; sin is only committed out of ignorance; the virtuous man is a happy man” (BT 70). The virtuous man justifies life through dialectic and visible connection between faith and morality. Euripides’ Socratic dramas push the Dionysian—the music—from tragedy (BT §14).
The third type of justification for life besides tragic and theoretical, according to Kierkegaard, is aesthetic. Nietzsche develops this idea in The Gay Science and Thus Spoke Zarathustra. We can justify life aesthetically by making ourselves like ideal fictional characters—all events which you have experienced, whether to your own designs or not, may well have been since you have accepted and integrated all of them into the totality of your self: thus it was, thus I willed it, thus let it be once more, again and again—that you would respond with joy to the prospect of living your life story exactly as it was and will be over and over forever and ever. Make your self a beautiful narrative for which you take full responsibility. Nothing superfluous, nothing extra, nothing bad or good, wrong or right, moral or evil. Just consistent, useful, triumphant: a clear-conscience. Conscious of only what you need to express and actuate. Joy, sorrow, weakness, power — compelling.
Today, the dominant justification for life seems to be the drive for biological immortality based in science. One can live forever through their progenetic replacements, for whom they do the most lucrative and fulfilling work they can get. The hope is to give birth to the overman: an improved version of oneself. Most are not conscious of these drives, nor need they be. The most conscientious and those recognizing that God is dead tend to use medico-scientific justification for their actions.
The core of this new priestly class Nietzsche illuminates in §344 of The Gay Science entitled “How we, too, are still pious.” Nietzsche sees convictions based on science as unscientific and science itself as an evolutionary outgrowth of Socratic Platonism and Christianity. The first step in the discipline of science is to not permit oneself any more convictions, except the foundational conviction that nothing is needed more than truth. “But why not deceive? But why not allow oneself to be deceived?” Deception can give one an advantage in survival, so science must have originated in spite of the fact that the dis-utility and dangerousness of ‘the will to truth’ has been established and proves itself constantly. Nietzsche references wily Odysseus and Don Quixote as examples of nature’s preference for deception and self-deception. Perhaps the will to truth only masks a will to death. Christian martyrs, aping Socrates, indeed often died for their truths. Nature is not moral, so faith in science rests upon the ancient metaphysical faith in divine truth. “—But what if this should become more and more incredible, if nothing should prove to be divine any more unless it were error, blindness, the lie—if God himself should prove to be our most enduring lie?—” The virility of the newest members of the Abraham’s covenant seem to confirm Nietzschean suspicions.
Nietzsche himself does not entirely break free from the theoretical tradition. He speaks often of humanity as a whole body, using physiological metaphor, reminiscent of the Christians’ Body of Christ. He considers himself a physician tending to a sick species. He himself shares that instinct of weakness which conserves religious, metaphysical systems and convictions of all kinds. In his first work he relies heavily on a creative reinterpretation of Apollo and Dionysus. “Faith is always coveted most and needed most urgently where will is lacking” (GS §347). Nietzsche holds convictions, but also indulges in Socratic challenges to the intellectual status quo.
Perhaps thus far I have been only like Zarathustra’s ape, summarizing badly what Nietzsche says, leaving out key steps in his logic. I gather that he would consider such consciousness superfluous. The capacity for communication seems proportionate to the need for communication and consciousness develops from the pressure of this need. “Consciousness does not really belong to man’s individual existence but rather to his social or herd nature” (GS §354). My consciousness holds only what I can communicate. I know, act upon, and am much more than of what I am conscious. Much of what I interact with, encounter, and within society am, I cannot say and do not notice. And that someone experiences me one way or another I remain unawares. Unless I hear or read, understand, and then can express.
Nietzsche’s aesthetic self-justification catches fever with Thus Spoke Zarathustra. His work takes the form of prophetic sacred text, co-opting the historical religious figure Zarathustra as his mouthpiece. The language is colorful, metaphor-laden, poetic and formulaic. He tells of the overman, of the will to power, faith in the earth, self-overcoming, amor fati, and eternal recurrence. “In your children you shall make up for being the children of your fathers” (TSZ 316). Prophecy is ragged and dirty, at once personal and global. A people is many triers.
Contempt is an interwoven theme of Thus Spoke Zarathustra. He has exacting standards, bemoans the common man coming into literacy, saying aphorisms should be peaks addressed to the tall and lofty, written in blood. “Not by wrath does one kill but by laughter. Come, let us kill the spirit of gravity!” (TSZ 153). Women seem a target of his disgust as well, though outside psychoanalysis gendered dichotomies lack meaning. “Are you entitled to wish for a child?” he asks, establishing acceptable and unacceptable reasons for pregnancy. Nietzsche like Socrates before him gestates and gives birth to ideas, and he feels this justified because he has self-conquered. He laughs at those who decorate their minds with the ideas of others past instead of creating something new from their wreckage. The motley educators.
Nietzsche turns some of his ire upon himself, briefly, implying that the overman is just another feathery god, a poet’s prevarication. Like Silenus the pessimistic forest spirit is to Dionysus as the Adversary is to Yahweh, the overman is to Nietzsche what the messiah is to the Christian. A bridge to heaven? No: the overman lives upon the earth, has no metaphysical dimension. He remains a bridge however many times he incarnates—to stronger, bolder, more concentrated life.
“And are not all things knotted together so firmly that this moment draws after it all that is to come?” (TSZ 270). So time can be imagined as the ouroboros, the eternal golden braid (to borrow a phrase). Great men never speak the truth. Lovers of knowledge should break the old tablets and make new ones. Human generations pass like leaves of trees; how sublime. To bring about the Great Noon we must go under the Abysmal Thought like the sun. Break the maxims of those who slander the world. To will is to create. Nietzsche’s use of images and allegories reflect a Dionysian alternative to dialectic, avoiding clear statements that could become dogma like an Apollonian philosopher’s.
Humans mistake arbitrary meaning transfers as calcified in language for extra-human reality. We have an edifice complex. The intellect shows it’s greatest strength in dissimulation. We anthropomorphize the universe wrongly, but shouldn’t then believe it is a machine or has a singular purpose, for those are still shadows of God. Human cognition is not universal: merely human “intellect shows it’s greatest strengths in dissimulation.” The Thing-In-Itself: unknowable. We cast the net of language over the chaos of the world to catch forms that fit. Spam email, dialectix, strange loops.
“Oh, how should I not lust after eternity and after the nuptial ring of rings, the ring of recurrance?” (TSZ 341).
What is the Will to Power but a collection of scraps?
EPIC 2014
This video warns of potential dystopia. But instead of Big Brother controlling human consciousness, Google and Amazon have destroyed widespread informational cohesion and put individuals in charge of aggregating information, creating personalized feeds which create individualised content bubbles. The tone of narration and the ominous music make clear that the creators of this video fear these technologies while admitting their awesome potential.
	What exactly are these technologies? How does the video portray them? How does the video appeal to ethos with the specific focus on the fate of the NYT? How do they appeal to pathos? What role does logos play?
	Must have been made in 2004 because the timeline goes wrong then. Check this somehow.
	Microsoft and Friendster are not in this equation anymore... Facebook and Twitter weren’t foreseeable, apparently...
“The computer writes a news story for every user.” How can this be considered news? Here’s a good spot to bring in Google Scribe.
	The computer as this malicious, uncaring other.
	I’m unconvinced by the legal part of this story. Apparently Googlezon’s algorithms are so good that the Supreme Court doesn’t give a shit about copyright anymore?
	EPIC - Evolving Personalized Information Construct. ORLY?
	The advertising model explained here actually describes YouTube’s business model pretty exactly, which incidentally Google owns
	Product shaping algorithm does end up sounding like Skynet/Big Brother combination
	EPIC, as described at the end of the video, sounds a lot like Twitter’s potential
	So, after I got bored with this outdated piece of video speculation, I investigated the people who made this piece of rhetoric. Matt Thompson link from the end of the vid led to soporific fourth estate propaganda. Robin Sloan, however, I found much more interesting. He linked to a blog post hailing him as the future of media, which was fascinating and held a fascinating advertisement that surprised me.
This sparkly anus thing is obnoxious
why the fuzzy black and white tbl pic?
floating, weirded amazon, google, logos
scrolling search results i nice
“almost no one who tries it ever goes back”
blawgher
more like facebook!
google news edited by computers
yr of the blog
2004 beginning of time!
raeson neat dude
electronic paper where you at? not cheaper than shit
gmail big deal
newbot where u at?
a9 who cares
IPO google holla
ambient music not doing much for me; kinda detaches me from the screen; sorta scary
“she” the user
GRID what?
newsbotster lol
GOOGLEZON
I bet all the newsters were eating this shit up
BIG BROTHER OMG
“news wars of 2010
this shit is hilarious
CHECKMATE M$ HA BITCH
dynamic news stories? new story for every user zomgzomgzomg
Microsoft fades away....
Fourth Estate... god this is melodramatic
Supreme Court decides in favor WHY?
e pi c shadow
sparkly anuses back and all over the world wo
map zoom in for custom content idea, hmm
stupid sparkly anuses back two then flash to epic
“but at it’s worst, and for too many...
“it’s what we chose!
NYT offline print only thanks to GOOGLEZON HEGEMONY ACKACKZOMG
Don’t evaluate their statements so much right
Stupid Dickensian intro...
“living, breathing mediascape
The difference of 2015 = Picasa mention? Keyhole; digitizing libraries; iPods; wifiPod (iPhone); their lives or their lies? NYT paywall; contexual cues, more specific to how news is made more relevant sorta makes more sense. GPS feeds; geodata;; white screen at the end, no links
Customized content and advertising
Rhetorical Situation:
Audience is Online Leaders seminar at Poynter Institute attendees, blog readers. Authors’ Purpose is to warn traditional media mavens of the threat online services pose to their business. Originally appeared in seminar presentations and then on influential blogs.
Ethos:
Author was current on the progress of the web and the state of the news media. Credibility for the history lesson given seems unquestionable. There’s some confusion at first as to when the history stops and the speculative fiction begins. After a second watch 2004 is the obvious answer, and outside sources confirm this conclusion. Once the fiction starts a small news media establishment bias shows up.
Logos:
The logic of how the history is presented as leading up to something big and important in how media works and information disseminated seems utterly logical but from the perspective of 2010 the logic of the speculative history seems more dictated by pathos than logos. The names Newsbotster and Googlezon seem ridiculous. The logic behind the Google-Amazon merger and EPIC and the Supreme Court decision is not clear. Logic in the speculative second half seems to take a back seat to sensationalism.
Pathos:
The dystopian overtones come across clear as noon. This video means to appeal to the fears of those who have some familiarity with the internet and world wide web but work and are comfortable in a traditional media landscape.
Structure:
Timeline; history then speculation based on stated history
Style (& Tone):
Warning; dystopian (dickens, orwell); 
Delivery/Presentation:
Consider the differences between 2014 and 2015, briefly
EPIC 2020
	I like to click. I like to type. I like to press buttons. Many people, including Robin Sloan and Matt Thompson, seem to share these predilections. In 2004 they created a video called EPIC 2014 that later went viral, as they say, resulting in many buttons pressed. In the first place, Robin and Matt made the video for the Online Leaders seminar at the Poynter Institute, where they studied journalism at the time. They meant to scare the seminar attendees, all connected with journalism somehow, into taking the world-wide web seriously as a news dissemination medium. They begin with the web’s invention in 1989 and follow related technological advances until 2004, which they say is the year when everything began. After detailing the latest advances they speculate on future developments in a dystopian vein, ending with the New York Times going offline in 2014.
	The villain of this science fiction has the name Googlezon: a merger of Google and Amazon. The EPIC in the name of the video stands for Evolving Personalized Information Construct: the specific, speculative agent of news dissemination that bankrupts the so-called Fourth Estate. The narration explains how EPIC works in vague terms, but seems to understand what the web might become for users: a personalized filter for information and entertainment.
The video begins with a white flashing star animation on a black background that perhaps hints that this video will present a narrow, fuzzy, us vs. other text. The narration suggests otherwise: “Everyone participates to create a living, breathing mediascape.” The narrator’s tone and the ominous ambient music underscore this incredible prediction — which has come true to an extent — with fear. Loss of control must always entail danger for someone.
	What sounds exciting to me having grown up with the web meant lost power for the print rags. Sloan and Thompson tried to convince their colleagues of this coming reality through scare tactics. They quote Charles Dickens at the beginning of the video and reference George Orwell less obviously on the Googlezon ID card. The authors establish their ethos early on — they are on print’s side, but recognize huge potential in the web as a news medium. They have the appropriate vocabulary and choose important points on the timeline to also demonstrate that they understand the current state of the web. At the same time, to soften any frightening implications of their vision, they introduced themselves wearing tinfoil hats and finished their presentation by asking what their audience could do to prepare for this coming brave new world.
	The logos of the text is difficult to assess fairly, because much of what has been speculated on turned out much differently. The timeline up until 2004 and the majority of chosen points seem relevant and important to their argument. After 2004, however, the story becomes somewhat ridiculous. How can anyone can say ‘Newsbotster’ with a straight face? Google’s search algorithm and Amazon’s recommendation engine share concepts, but that does not speak to the ease with which these two companies could merge their corporate cultures and web-based services and then successfully compete with Microsoft. Friendster died and was replaced by Facebook. The Supreme Court decision seems unbelievable too. What about copyright? How can ‘fact-stripping robots’ create stories that can legitimately be called news? In the second half logic takes a back seat to sensationalism. To their credit, however, the advertising-based business model described for EPIC does bear resemblance to that of the Google-owned YouTube.
	Pathos reigns in EPIC 2014. The dystopian overtones are clear. Where the logic is fuzzy and the ethic seems divided between Fourth Estate allegiance and excitement at possibility, the emotional punch of this piece seems unified: fear and awe at the potential of the web. The video consistently portrays computers and the companies that make them do useful things as some unfeeling, inhuman, and uncaring other. Their audience would have been comfortable in the traditional media landscape and worried about the implications new technology and therefore able to relate to these feelings. No one likes a monopoly and so the spectre of Googlezon frightens. Six years later, however, the video often seems melodramatic.
	The authors recognized that their prophecy was not faring well and that their animation could use some work. They updated it as EPIC 2015. This update mentions additional technological advances, some more relevant and/or prescient than others. Still, the main plot remains the same. The update shows the difficulty of predicting the course of technological innovation.
	One version of the EPIC 2014 video ends with links to the personal sites of the creators. Liking to click links, I opened both to see what these creative fellows were doing these days. Matt Thompson’s site was a huge block of text and my notes on his site read “soporific Fourth Estate propaganda.” I found Robin Sloan much more interesting. Maybe we share a certain megalomania. He linked to a blog post entitled “Why Robin Sloan is the Future of Publishing (and Science Fiction)” which detailed his exploits and included a fascinating skyscraper ad in the right-hand column that struck a chord with my research.
	This fascinating, playful, mysterious ad begins it’s three-part rotation with bold, all-caps, white text — NEVER BE BORED AGAIN — under a pretty female face. She’s blond, wears a coy smile and looks to the left at the text you were reading before you noticed her. Lest you look away and miss the content of the advertisement, a couple seconds after the animated GIF file loads the image changes, revealing the woman holds an Olde English forty ounce bottle of malt liquor, open and a little drained, not far from her mouth. The text, in the same style as before: CARRY A REVELATION IN YOUR POCKET. What? No one has pockets big enough for a 40 oz malt beverage! (Except maybe a kangaroo...)
	And finally, the punchline: ELECTRIC LITERATURE FOR THE iPHONE. Do Apple enforcers threaten to hurt people who capitalize the i- prefix? But what is she holding in her other hand? A friend of mine suggests a hat and that seems reasonable enough, though that hat has an awfully strange shape. And under the hat, what seems to be an ajar book— but then we see the young lady’s legs through what has become an outlet cover. Wow.
	When Microsoft loses out to Googlezon in EPIC 2014, their logo fades and descends the screen. The sparkle star-fingers animation that begins the video reappears in different contexts with different most probable suggested meanings. Compared to the Electric Literature advertisement, EPIC 2014 lacks visual sophistication. Robin Sloan had only amateur animation skills. To it’s credit, EPIC 2015 mentions the ‘wifiPod,’ which comes close to describing an iPod Touch, iPhone, or iPad. EPIC 2014 tells a compelling story through narration.
	The Electric Literature ad does not so much tell a story and has no sound. Rather, the ad grabs a reader’s attention and keeps them intrigued. This ad does uses some conventional tactics, most obviously a promise in command form at the rotation’s beginning and pictures of a beauty. Whereas many ads get right to the point (EPIC 2014 begins with the year 2014 and then gives a history lesson), Electric Literature’s maintains some mystery throughout, encouraging a click to sate your curiosity. And lo, they’re an idealistic company trying to bring the short story back to relevance through as many mediums as they can. And they bought the ad space for two cents. Bless their hearts.
	Barbara Kingsolver works within the context of popular fiction. Her readers expect strong, independent female protagonists with a well-developed inner-life, and that’s what she gives them. Prodigal Summer defines the eco-feminist romance novel. While strong in places, Kingsolver often reverts to tired metaphors. Her writing, if not constantly engaging, maintains readability and a manageable pace. Predictable in places, especially the Old Chestnuts storyline. Some good quotes and well-written passages explicating some belief that Kingsolver holds. Most of “Old Chestnuts” seems to be a caricature of a narrow-minded old man and does not establish a strong sense of a developed character. Lusa and Deanna seem extremely well-developed, and sympathetic to the point of being unreal. That said, even if this book steeped in science maintains elements of the fantastic, Kingsolver’s vision comforts. Like Lusa, I would imagine much of her readership hails from the city and simultaneously feels concern toward the environment.
Reading this book from a male perspective, I was often offput by how Kingsolver portrayed males. Eddie Bondo seemed most realistic and well-developed whereas Old Man Garnett remains one-dimensional and frustrating for most of the novel. That women may see the men in their lives this way does not surprise me but I had never read such a continued elucidation on the subject. Thanks for the humility.
While these males may not shine forth with enlightenment like the earth mothers of Deanna, Lusa, and Nannie Rawley, they play the important role of challenger and fertilizer. Eddie Bondo plays a mean foil to Deanna’s coyote-loving park ranger role. He throws Deanna into a fit of rage and worry and sadness when he kills a turkey in the forest, the shot’s noise bringing her mind to Bondo’s game, her beloved coyotes. However, he has only shot a turkey for them to eat and they enjoy an omnivorous dinner. Similarly, Eddie impregnates her which leads to a new turn in her life story, a return to Nannie Rawley and her hometown which she looked over and had been absent from for years.
Deanna loves big predators, which might accurately describe Eddie Bondo, who travels the country looking for new game to kill. She explains why to Eddie, explaining how they keep population in check and indicate the health of the rest of the ecosystem. Taking scale of predator-prey relationships into consideration the food chain makes a food pyramid. One coyote for dozens of mice for hundreds of insects, and so forth. An orchard full of apples for how many humans, a field full of briars and grass for how many goats? 
Garnett’s story has the strange trajectory of redemption from narrow-minded old-timey Christianity to a less dogmatic and accepting mindset. He serves foil for Nannie Rawley’s ecological evangelizing. Their exchanges would tire if Kingsolver did not seem to care for both characters a great deal. Garnett softens once he and Nannie have physical contact. Nannie fixes his neck pains. Throughout all the story threads, Kingsolver emphasizes how every living thing connects with every other one and how humans recognizing this and working together always turns events for the better.
Lusa’s story thread best exemplifies this theme. Once her husband dies she inherits the struggling family farm and her in-laws project understandable suspicion. She steps in and up to take care of a dying sister-in-laws children and takes Garnett’s teaching career’s mess of goats across the county and turns them into religious holiday food at a high price per pound. These revelations might seem miraculous and suspect if not for Lusa’s strong feeling of connection with the land: “She learned to tell time with her skin, as morning turned to afternoon and the mountain's breath began to bear gently on the back of her neck. By early evening it was insistent as a lover's sigh, sweetened by the damp woods, cooling her nape and shoulders whenever she paused her work in the kitchen to lift her sweat-damp curls off her neck. She had come to think of Zebulon as another man in her life, larger and steadier than any other companion she had known.” Once her husband dies, a sleeping pill from her newly befriended sister-in-law triggers a surreal wet dream involving a moth-man. Somehow her dissertation on moths and desire for farm life leads her into a mystical connection with the land.
The men of the county seem to share a connection with the land as well



Key scenes:
Lusa and Ricky
Coyote lovers coitus

Quotes! HILARIOUS
“Every quiet step is thunder to beetle life underfoot, a tug of impalpable thread on the web pulling mate to mate and predator to prey, a beginning or an end. Every choice is a world made new for the chosen.''
Males choose and ladies get chosen. Right? Well, ladies get to choose, too. But in a way neither has the choice. We come together through the chaos of nature, riding the waves of metaphor that in language make discreet and real and choice-worthy the confusing and challenging world in which we live and strive and expend ourselves in a grand dance of desire. Both choose and endure the consequences. Barbara Kingsolver explores this territory in her novel Prodigal Summer with awe-inspired and -inspiring aplomb. However, these moments of awe also require moments of tedium, just like our everyday lives.
Kingsolver works within the context of popular fiction. Her readers expect strong, independent female protagonists with a well-developed inner-life, and that’s what she gives them. Prodigal Summer defines the eco-feminist romance novel. While lucid in places, Kingsolver often reverts to tired metaphors. Her writing, if not constantly engaging, maintains readability and a manageable pace. Predictable in places, especially the “Old Chestnuts” storyline, I kept reading to see how the plot would progress even if I could already guess the direction and destination. Kingsolver produces well-written passages explicating her beliefs. However, most of “Old Chestnuts” seems to be a caricature of a narrow-minded old man and does not establish a strong sense of a developed character. Lusa and Deanna seem extremely well-developed, and sympathetic to the point of being unreal. That said, even if this book steeped in science maintains elements of the fantastic, Kingsolver’s vision comforts and educates. Like Lusa, I would imagine much of her readership hails from the cities but feels simultaneous concern toward the environment.
Reading Kingsolver’s Prodigal Summer from a male perspective, I was often offput by how Kingsolver portrayed males. Eddie Bondo seemed most realistic and well-developed whereas Old Man Garnett remained one-dimensional and frustrating for most of the novel. That women may see the men in their lives this way does not surprise me but I had never read such a continued elucidation on the probability. Thanks for the humility.
While these males may not shine forth with enlightenment like the earth mothers Deanna, Lusa, and Nannie Rawley, they fill the important roles of challenger and fertilizer. Eddie Bondo plays a mean foil to Deanna’s coyote-fascinated independent park ranger persona. He throws Deanna into a fit of rage and worry and sadness when he kills a turkey in the forest, the shot’s noise bringing her mind to Bondo’s game, her beloved coyotes. However, he had only shot a turkey for them to eat and they enjoy an omnivorous dinner, Deanna full of fuzzy for her meat-providing mate. Similarly, Eddie impregnates her which leads to a new turn in her life story, a return to Nannie Rawley and her hometown which she looked over and had been absent from for years. Eddie leaves without knowing he will be a father, humbled by her monograph on coyotes.
In the initial section of the novel, Deanna and Eddie’s first meeting reads like foreplay. Eddie’s mention of coyotes toward the end of an exchange immediately becomes a pun on and suggestion of coitus. Deanna loves big predators, which might accurately describe Eddie Bondo, who travels the country looking for new game to kill. She explains why to Eddie, making clear how they keep population in check and indicate the health of the rest of the ecosystem. Taking the scale of predator-prey relationships into consideration the food chain becomes a food pyramid. One coyote for dozens of mice for hundreds of insects, and so forth. An orchard full of apples for how many humans, a field full of briars and grass for how many goats? Kingsolver explores throughout the novel the unique place humans occupy in the food web.
Garnett’s story has the strange trajectory of redemption from narrow-minded old-timey Christianity to a less dogmatic and accepting mindset. He serves foil for Nannie Rawley’s ecological evangelizing. Their exchanges would tire if Kingsolver did not seem to care for and empathize with both characters a great deal. Garnett softens once he and Nannie have physical contact. Nannie fixes his neck pains and they share a platonic hug. Throughout all of the story threads, Kingsolver emphasizes how every living thing connects with every other one and how humans recognizing this and working together always turn events for the better.
Lusa’s story thread best exemplifies this theme. Once her husband dies she inherits the struggling Widener family farm and her in-laws project understandable suspicion upon her. She steps in and up to take care of a dying sister-in-law’s children (who happen to be Garnett’s grandchildren) and takes Garnett’s teaching career’s mess of goats across the county and turns them into New York City religious holiday food at a high price per pound. These revelations might seem miraculous and suspect if not for the earlier-established Lusa’s strong feeling of connection with the land: 
“She learned to tell time with her skin, as morning turned to afternoon and the mountain's breath began to bear gently on the back of her neck. By early evening it was insistent as a lover's sigh, sweetened by the damp woods, cooling her nape and shoulders whenever she paused her work in the kitchen to lift her sweat-damp curls off her neck. She had come to think of Zebulon as another man in her life, larger and steadier than any other companion she had known.”
In addition, after her high school football star husband dies, a sleeping pill from her newly befriended sister-in-law triggers a surreal wet dream involving a moth-man. Somehow her dissertation on moths and desire to live on a farm lead her into a mystical connection with the land.
The men of the county seem to share a connection with the land as well, though more indirect. They all smoke tobacco, for one, that ancient American cash crop grown throughout the county. Little Ricky, Lusa’s nephew, displays an impressive knowledge and work ethic for someone his age, all while sucking down Marlboro’s. Garnett Walker’s family named the mountain and county, so he has the stronger roots into Zebulon land than anyone else. He had invested the rest of his life into cross-breeding the American and Chinese chestnut to make the grand American species resistant to the blight that wiped them out. Deanna lives on Zebulon mountain in a cabin made from chestnut trunks, probably built by Garnett’s grandfather. His own grandchildren come under Lusa’s care, and he helps her use his goats to bring capital into the county. When Nannie brags that she’s going to become a grandmother to Deanna’s baby, Garnett can brag that Lusa plans to bring his grandchildren over to help him with his chestnuts.
The chestnuts reveal the double-edge of interconnectedness. Garnett differs with Nannie over the use of pesticides to counter foreign pests, and the blight that devastated the chestnuts in the first place came from overseas. Of course, on earth-mother Nannie’s land there still survive some pre-blight American chestnuts. But the Chinese chestnuts provide key genetic material for Garnett’s play at god. How very masculine, intervention. Interconnectedness, however, has no gender, only sex. Despite her classic sky-god earth-mother sexual dichotomy throughout the novel, Kingsolver admirably avoids stereotypes while still maintaining a realistic portrayal of sexual relations, though they may seem bizarre to some. Perhaps Kingsolver’s colorful, innuendo-saturated descriptions rub some readers funny. Regardless, Kingsolver admirably and engagingly weaves a believable yet wondrous and informative narrative.

catalog of every specific human folly, satirized
economics - gold jewels shiny things money lead to folly; see Eldorado and how the saturation of their culture with these riches cures many problems
scarcity/rarity tied closely to value
is money necessary for happiness? no. is money necessary for large-scale economies? yes.
goes back to Gilgamesh - to be happy you need a spouse and children and food and stuff
build to leave a legacy
what makes the good life? meaningful, worth living, &c.
focus on architecture, music, and science
scaffolding, ordering, breaking time and space into understandable units
Lord Pococorante -- hipster noble, “few cares” bored, satiated, endlessly wealthy
Criticizes scholars for lack of appreciation
What’s the motivation for education?
suffering > boredome; better to live a physically painful life than to rot away in idle boredom
ennui as central theme of Candide

Why’d Candide marry Cunegonde in the end even though she was no longer beautiful? He promised, she insisted, her brother was against it
Martin the Manichee like Schopenhauer the pessimist
Candide loses innocence and positivity
Don’t be dogmatic or indulge in extremes
Epicurianism
Friends, self-sustaining work, minimizing pain
“Everything happens for a reason”? Nah dawg.

Make a website, stored where? google sites, as long as i can keep it anon

Prompt:  Voltaire sends his protagonist Candide around the world to observe and experience humanity at its best and worst.  In the process, Candide arguably loses his innocence and optimism.  Does he gain anything in the process?  Voltaire uses satire to reveal the flaws in humans and their attitudes, motivations, and philosophies as they pursue their desires.  But does Voltaire offer an alternative?  Does Voltaire see happiness as possible in this world?  Address these issues in a well-written essay of approximately 750 words.

    Why spell 'happiness' with the unconventional y? Considering the image, the subtle intention seems to emphasize genetic continuation: Will Smith's dad character holding a briefcase in one hand and his son's hand in the other, the sun (what pun!) shining through their physical bond and the son leaning his head against his father's arm. Kid Cudi's song "Pursuit of Happiness" provides a contemporary take on the concept popularized by Thomas Jefferson's Declaration of Independence, which he modified from John Locke, who included the word property instead of happiness. The lyrics speak first of smoking cannabis and driving under the influence of alcohol, cultivating a stand-offish care-free attitude. The second verse concerns night terrors and general dysphoria. The chorus holds the crux of the song's pathos. Not all that glitter's is gold, the saying goes, and to 'get it' implies material or sexual gain. Keep chasing the dream.
    Candide begins his chase with innocent kissing and touching of princess Cunégonde in his home castle, which he has learned to be the most beautiful and best of all possible castles from resident philosopher Pangloss. Caught in "this cause and this effect" at the end of the first chapter, Candide begins his wanderings, with the ultimate goal of returning to paradisiacal Cunégonde.
   To shorten Voltaire's absurd and winding satire, Candide does marry Cunégonde and they, along with the characters who helped them on their way, settle down in Turkey. The philosophical question which follows Candide throughout the novel - whether this is the best of all possible worlds - comes to solution in the last line: "That is very well put, said Candide, but we must cultivate our garden." Here Pangloss gets tossed aside and the lesson of the novel drops. We humans may be fallen from grace, but we can try to recreate the state of grace for ourselves here on earth. For each their Eden.
    Candide also displays striking similarity to The Odyssesy. Our protagonist travels the known world undergoing trials in order to reach some final home goal. Odysseus, however, is wily and unphilosophical, while Candide is gullible and ponderous. Both have an admirable stubbornness which keeps them alive and leads to eventual success. The retelling continues with The Pursuit of Happyness, a recent movie.
Candide, despite the cynicism that roils on the surface, still holds the titular promise of optimism, thoroughly critiqued. Life becomes worth living— and the irony ends— when Candide begins to recreate Eden for himself. Eldorado seems to him the best of all possible worlds of which Pangloss speaks. There they have all they need. They never need leave but simply to take care to maintain and grow what they have. Europe, with a lust for trade and stones rare and beautiful, suffers a continual hell. Even as the earth punishes Lisbon, so the survivors punish each other.
 Candide, despite the cynicism that roils on the surface, still holds the titular promise of optimism, thoroughly critiqued. Life becomes worth living— and the satire ends— when Candide begins to recreate Eden for himself. Eldorado seems to him the best of all possible worlds of which Pangloss speaks. There they have all they need. They never have need to leave but simply to take care and grow what they have. Europe, with a lust for trade and stones rare and beautiful, suffers a continual hell. Even as the earth punishes Lisbon, so the survivors punish each other.
Here, Daniel Day-Lewis gives the impression of resting upon a long journey. The mountainous terrain reminds of Eldorado, the fictional kingdom saturated with precious metals in which Voltaire's Candide takes some rest.
 Kid Cudi's song "Pursuit of Happiness" provides a contemporary take on the phrase popularized by Thomas Jefferson's Declaration of Independence, which he modified from John Locke, who included the word property instead of happiness. The lyrics speak first of smoking cannabis and driving under the influence of alcohol, cultivating a stand-offish care-free attitude. The second verse concerns night terrors and bed-ridden dysphoria. The chorus holds the crux of the song's pathos. Not all that glitters is gold, the saying goes; to 'get it' implies material or sexual gain. Keep chasing the dream.
    Candide begins his chase with innocent kissing and touching of princess Cunégonde in his home castle, which he has learned to be the most beautiful and best of all possible castles from resident philosopher Pangloss. Caught in "this cause and this effect" at the end of the first chapter, Candide begins his wanderings, with the ultimate goal of returning to paradisiacal Cunégonde.
   To shorten Voltaire's absurd and winding satire, Candide marries Cunégonde long after her beauty fades and they, along with the characters who helped them on their way, settle down in Turkey. The philosophical question which follows Candide throughout the novel - whether this is the best of all possible worlds - comes to solution in the last line: "That is very well put, said Candide, but we must cultivate our garden." Here Pangloss gets tossed aside and the lesson of the novel drops. We humans may be fallen from grace, but we can try to recreate the state of grace for ourselves here on earth. For each their Eden.
    Candide also displays striking similarity to The Odyssey. Our protagonist travels the known world undergoing trials in order to reach some final home goal. Odysseus, however, is wily and unphilosophical, while Candide is gullible and ponderous. Nevertheless, both have an admirable stubbornness which keeps them alive and leads to eventual success. The retelling continues with The Pursuit of Happyness, a recent movie.
This Brigitte Bardot scene provides a fitting image of Cunégonde traveling with the old woman and Cacambo.
What is the price of the tobacco you smoke in Britain?
Why spell 'happiness' with the unconventional y? Considering the image, the subtle intention seems to emphasize genetic continuation: Will Smith's dad-character holding a briefcase in one hand and his son's hand in the other, the sun (what pun!) shining through their physical bond and the son leaning his head against his father's arm. The briefcase is his bag of winds, his treasure to be lost, his red sheep laden with gold and gems.
    
    Today we search for happiness through screens. 

Father of history and anthropology
H no sense of cultures as complex wholes, notes only particular traits
Tells things from a Greek perspective, noting what’s odd and interesting to him
Author grew up among ethnographers
H ethnocentric therefore ethnographic of Greek culture
Travel and observe as Greek as Odysseus
Travel for commerce, war, and tourism/sight-seeing (theoria)
Love of theoria common, sagacious in H’s work
H interested in culture; nomoi, ethea, diaita
Diaita deals with consumption and livelihood; lit. means residence
Ethea deals more with personality, cultivation, civilization; lit. dwelling places “haunts”
Nomos explicitly laws, commands, prohibitions; lit. written law
Diaita and nomoi contrasted referring to clothing and religious observance, respectively
Three terms relative and each people think their ways best
Nomoi accompanied by an explanation which make sense in culture’s own terms
Tourist’s relativism: different people are wonderful, interesting
H the tourist collects nomoi which are “rare, gaudy, and curious” p99
Tourist makes no attempt to fit in but occupies the role of foreigner
“The tourist travels in order to be a foreigner, which is to say, he travels in order to come home.” p100
Tourist discovers his own culture by taking it with him where he is a foreigner and thus gaining new appreciation for being home
Ethnographer parents taught him to despise tourists because they were similar in observance but different in approach and motivation
Ethnographers in the field align themselves with the natives against their own people, often tourists, giving up what power they have to be at the mercy of the natives and live like them
Ethnography is for us, not them; they don’t study us, so we try to become invisible
Ethnography as appropriation; our interest in nomoi comes from modernist anomie
Are we sure our system is really the best, just because it’s taking over the world?
the ethnographer is never more modern than when he leaves this modern scene to immerse himself in another culture. (The classic meditation on this paradox is Levi-Strauss' Tristes tropiques.) 
Initial antipathy due to ethnocentric expectations; Greek great tourists not participant observers perhaps thanks to their high cultural morale
Theoria word adopted by philsophers for their own activities
Solon’s moralism thematic throughout Histories
Herodotos travels to teach; Solon his alter-ego; tells us what to think about the world
Primary categorization between Greeks and barbarians
H has an eye for the exceptional but also commonalities and patterns
H interested in symmetry and tisis
“Wonder is the beginning of wisdom when it leads to further thought.” p103
Arranges oddities in a frame of systematic oppositions; e.g. with Egyptians
On James Redfield’s “Herodotos the Tourist” & F. J. Groten, Jr.’s “Herodotos’ Use of Variant Versions”
	James Redfield approaches Herodotos from the perspective of someone who grew up with ethnography. He notes that Herodotos does not do anthropology, but rather approaches different cultures more like a tourist coming from a position of comfort with his own culture. He has no sense of cultures as complete wholes but rather tells of peculiar traits from a Greek perspective. Because he writes ethnocentricly Herodotos’ Histories ethnographs Greek culture. To travel and observe is as Greek as Odysseus. Greeks travel for commerce, war, and sight-seeing, also known as theoria.
	Herodotos’ interest in other cultures centers on three words in Redfield’s estimation: nomoi, ethea, and diaita. Diaita deals with consumption and livelihood, meaning literally residence. Ethea deals more with cultivation, personality, and civilization, meaning literally dwelling places or ‘haunts.’ Nomos explicits laws, commands, prohibitions. Herodotos contrasts diaita and nomoi referring to clothing and religious observance, respectively. Each people thinks their customs best, but nomoi set peoples apart especially through their accompanying explanations in the culture’s own terms.
	The tourist, like Herodotos, assumes an attitude of soft cultural relativism: different people and customs induce wonder and provide material for thought. Herodotos collects nomoi which are “rare, gaudy, and curious” (99). Tourists make no attempt to fit in to the host culture. “The tourist travels in order to be a foreigner, which is to say, he travels in order to come home” (100). He discovers his own culture by taking it with him where he is a foreigner and thus gaining a new appreciation for being home.
	Redfield’s ethnographer parents taught him to despise tourists, and he brings this distaste with him to Herodotos. Tourists and ethnographers compare in their goal of observance but contrast in their approach and motivation. Ethnographers in the field align themselves with the natives against their own people, often tourists, giving up what power they have to be at the mercy of the natives and live like them. Ethnography is for us, not them; they don’t study us, so ethnographers try to become invisible. But ethnography can appropriate. With globalization, the modern person becomes anxious whether these ways are best, or simply more powerful. “The ethnographer is never more modern than when he leaves this modern scene to immerse himself in another culture,” Redfield notes.
	Redfield’s initial antipathy was due to ethnocentric expectations. Greeks were great tourists but not participant observers, perhaps thanks to their high cultural morale. Greek philosophers adopted the word theoria (glossed by Redfield as sight-seeing) to describe their own activities. Indeed, Solon appears in Herodotos like his alter-ego, traveling in order to learn and then instruct his own people. His primary categorization is still between Greeks and barbarians, and while he has an eye for the exceptional he also discusses commonalities and patterns. “Wonder is the beginning of wisdom when it leads to further thought” (103).
Symmetry especially interests Herodotos. He arranges oddities in a frame of systematic oppositions. He does not discuss his categories - he is no philosopher - but simply tries to “bring some order into the chaos of his actual experience” (106). He establishes a central opposition between Egypt and Scythia. Both lands have different natural traits from Greece that seem inverse of one another. Egyptian land has been shaped by civilization, while Scythia exists as before habitation. Redfield describes each culture in exhaustive specifics, generalizing Scythia the hard culture and Egypt the soft. “Each people marks the limit of the other's history” (107). These being at opposite poles of Herodotos’ world, geographically and culturally, define those in between, namely the Greeks and Persians. The Persians, with the conquest of the Medes, begin a transformation from hard to soft, adopting the nomoi of the conquered.
“There is thus in the Histories an alternation between corruption through excessive assimilation and destruction through irrational expansion into the void” (113). “Is there anything about the Greeks which might make it possible for them to escape from the cycle of koros, hubris, and ate?” (115). The Greeks “are sometimes bad subordinates because each thinks himself entitled to his own ideas; they are not loyal to an overlord, but to an idea. But since each has made this idea his own, each is ready to die for it; they do not require an overlord to keep them in the ranks” (116). “The Persians [...] borrowed nomoi in their quest for enjoyment; Greek eclecticism was more critical [...] From this point of view the Great Persian War is to be seen not so much as a conflict between soft and hard, as a contest between a relatively weak, thoughtless solution to the problem of the center, and a relatively strong, thoughtful solution” (117).
While Redfield finds the Greek center superior to the Persian, Groten considers how Herodotos often preferred the barbarian story to the Greek. Herodotos’ historical method takes central focus in Groten’s consideration of his use of variant versions of stories. We read examples of such variance when Herodotos tells the outlandish story of Thales redirecting the river so Croesus’ army can cross, and how the Lydians said Apollo rained out the pyre on which Cyrus nearly sacrificed Croesus.
Groten first turns his attention to the various sources Herodotos considers and the weight of truth he assigns to each in general. Believing the Egyptians to have a more ancient, developed, and therefore trustworthy and accurate historical tradition, Herodotos often defers to their versions of stories. In the very beginning of book one, Herodotos displays some anti-Greek bias in relating the Phoenician story that Io was not snatched but came with them willingly. Questioning the motives behind the Trojan war was common in fifth century Athens, and Herodotos shows respect for the rational Persian account.
Following this line of inquiry, Herodotos considers the conflicting accounts of the Trojan war, specifically Helen’s time in Egypt. After considering Homeric, contemporary Greek, and Egyptian stories about the incident, Herodotos concludes that the only definite statement that can be made is that Helen went with Paris and that the Egyptians reproached him for violating hospitality.
The Egyptian version of the story portrays them quite favorably: they extend hospitality to Paris but once they understand the situation detain Helen and her possessions until Menelaus comes to retrieve her, when he receives the same hospitable treatment. Menelaus, however, sacrifices two Egyptian children in order to change the winds. Groten suggests that Herodotos reproduces this Egyptian story to counter the stories circulating which had the Egyptians hostile to the “storm-tossed Greeks” (86). Groten concludes that Herodotos always tried to make a considered and unbiased choice based on his research. 
“Ivan Tolstoy’s Redemption”
	For a modern, sated human being, ennui seems from what redemption saves. A youth might attend parties, compete with predecessors and contemporaries, or crusade for those still in Dickensian squalor.
“Ivan Ilych's life had been most simple and most ordinary and therefore most terrible” (ch II).
Before giving direct attention to Ivan’s life, Tolstoy reveals the lack of compassion endemic within Russian professionals. They focus on their work, property, ambitions, and titles. Outside of public life, they focus on distractions, amusements, games, decoration, and social graces. Everything measured, considered, tasteful, convenient, attractive, respectable, expected. Only Gerasim, the youthful rustic servant, shows empathy or sympathy for Ivan as he dies.
After a life spent keeping up appearances, following orders and suggestions, feeding ambition and vanity according to acceptable societal channels, Ivan must ask what he has been doing, what control he has, and whether he might not have lived in the correct way. He suffers only from doubt. He obsesses over illness and affliction in the marked absence of seriousness.
His condition was rendered worse by the fact that he read medical books and consulted doctors. The progress of his disease was so gradual that he could deceive himself when comparing one day with another — the difference was so slight. But when he consulted the doctors it seemed to him that he was getting worse, and even very rapidly. Yet despite this he was continually consulting them (ch IV).
The addition of information and opinions feeds his doubts. Eventually the uncertainty isolates him from everyone else, embittering him to and with those around him.
Ivan Ilych was left alone with the consciousness that his life was poisoned and was poisoning the lives of others, and that this poison did not weaken but penetrated more and more deeply into his whole being (ch IV).
His only escape from ‘*it*,’ the poison, death, comes from arguing with his wife and daughter about the arrangement of the sitting room in which he knocked his side and began his ailments. All because he was over zealous about interior decoration, the hanging of a curtain. The symbolism of the curtain here speaks to a theme of concealment and appearance. He injures himself most through taking an impersonal attitude towards his life, dressing himself in convention and comformity. Through his extreme individualism, selfishness, and lack of concern for others he kills himself.
	Once he begins to disregard decorum with Gerasim, having him hold up his legs for hours at a time, he begins to understand concern for others. Tolstoy here betrays a Christian idealization of youth and rural purity embodied by the character Gerasim.
He saw that no one felt for him, because no one even wished to grasp his position. Only Gerasim recognized it and pitied him. And so Ivan Ilych felt at ease only with him. He felt comforted when Gerasim supported his legs (sometimes all night long) and refused to go to bed [...] Once when Ivan Ilych was sending him away he even said straight out: "We shall all of us die, so why should I grudge a little trouble?” — expressing the fact that he did not think his work burdensome, because he was doing it for a dying man and hoped someone would do the same for him when his time came (ch VII).
Pity, practicing the golden rule: classic Jesus. Gerasim, the servant unspoiled by Pauline structure and couched civilization, treats Ivan not as an end to be avoided but as a means to future comfort. His guarantee of a lighter burden in his last days comes from the church. Ivan has the added insurance of status.
	Those who share his status do not bother to suffer with Ivan. When told about Ivan and Gerasim “the doctor smiled with a contemptuous affability that said: ‘What's to be done? These sick people do have foolish fancies of that kind, but we must forgive them’” (ch VIII). The doctor dresses his disregard in the language of forgiveness but does not love his patient. He simply performs the expected procedures, collects his bill, and sees another patient.
Throughout his life, Ivan took meaning from contributing to society through work and embodying certain accepted forms. Once his co-workers see him deteriorating and he begins to suspect his contributions to professional life to be worthless and false, he quickly worsens. Ivan never questioned that he submitted himself to the true, real, and good. Not until he begins to suffer spiritually, needing the help of others, does he start to wonder:
Why, and for what purpose, is there all this horror? But however much he pondered he found no answer. And whenever the thought occurred to him, as it often did, that it all resulted from his not having lived as he ought to have done, he at once recalled the correctness of his whole life and dismissed so strange an idea (ch IX).
The idea persists, though, as some ideas do, and so Ivan tries other means of healing.
When the priest came and heard his confession, Ivan Ilych was softened and seemed to feel a relief from his doubts and consequently from his sufferings, and for a moment there came a ray of hope. He again began to think of the vermiform appendix and the possibility of correcting it. He received the sacrament with tears in his eyes.
Still, Ivan must face his mortality. 
Her dress, her figure, the expression of her face, the tone of her voice, all revealed the same thing. “This is wrong, it is not as it should be. All you have lived for and still live for is falsehood and deception, hiding life and death from you.” And as soon as he admitted that thought, his hatred and his agonizing physical suffering again sprang up, and with that suffering a consciousness of the unavoidable, approaching end. And to this was added a new sensation of grinding shooting pain and a feeling of suffocation (ch XI).
Yet he still clings to his self-confident conviction, if only to stem the pain.
For three whole days, during which time did not exist for him, he struggled in that black sack into which he was being thrust by an invisible, resistless force. [...] He was hindered from getting into it by his conviction that his life had been a good one. That very justification of his life held him fast and prevented his moving forward, and it caused him most torment of all (ch XII).
Leading to even more pain. You can suffer pain but never kill pain. Opium was a bad choice.
At that very moment Ivan Ilych fell through and caught sight of the light, and it was revealed to him that though his life had not been what it should have been, this could still be rectified. He asked himself, "What *is* the right thing?" and grew still, listening. Then he felt that someone was kissing his hand. He opened his eyes, looked at his son, and felt sorry for him. His wife camp up to him and he glanced at her. She was gazing at him open-mouthed, with undried tears on her nose and cheek and a despairing look on her face. He felt sorry for her too (ch XII).
PITY PARTY REDEMPTION: following this shared moment of pathos Ivan gives up his resistance, asks forgiveness, and settles into the comforting black sack, death’s womb, the all-encompassing light.
Really I should be garbleing famous public domain texts like Shakespeare and the Bible and stuff

Flarfing Cut-Up Markov
I like to read spam emails.
Less so now than before — my research removed much of the mystery. I remember sitting in my mom's basement, in front of the same Macbook on which I now type, for hours on end during the semester I attended UMKC. That was my third semester in college, my second year. My second semester had been a disaster. I was scared, sad, and bored. Checking my email, some piece of spam trickled through my filter and into my inbox. Besides whatever advertisement the body of the message contained, some appended text had slipped the email past Google filters and into my consciousness. But it was nonsense:
cushion “Stole softly public money that had been intrusted blush to skinhim, in fact?” The woken flight question had almost the tone of a challenge, and Montanelli shrank and delicious shivered present under it as unde”Signora Bolla, you brain and I have gone too far to stuck play atcompliments and wrestle cow modest denials now. Tell me hdrink “To tramp? father well With boy that lame foot!” hook “B-burnt slopealmonds! Why d-didn’t you tell scribble me before seed I began to s-smoke?” he cried reproachfully.
I had a neglected blog at the time. An experiment, I had written posts in the voices of different members of a science-fictional futuristic musical group, experimenting with writing accent, dialect, and humor. I lost interest in the project after introductory posts from each of the members. That blog, however, became my spam prose and poetry blog. The above text is the contents of the first post in that vein.
So instead of ignoring my Gmail Spam folder, I began to explore. The text I found was fascinating. I realized that these weirdly meaningful paragraphs must come from a computer program that scrambled text from the internet. For years, as a sort of underground hobby of which I told nary a soul, I would post to the blog. Realizing this stuff had implications for artificial intelligence and natural language processing as well as the avant garde, I named my blog after Douglas Hofstadter's book Godel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid — Koopa, Escher, Weezy: A Transient Silver Fairytail.
I only recently realized that what I have been doing is not entirely deviant. Other people have been making art out of found web-text since at least 2001, and the methods used to create such text have been around for amusement for much longer. Not to mention, the surrealist and dada movements that established similar methods as art almost a century ago. One of my initial thoughts about the text I found in spam was of William Burroughs and the cut-up method.
I wrote a script to imitate this method that I called Garble. My technique was not faithful to Burrough's in that there was not respect for line-breaks or any sort of punctuation as meaningful characters. After brief research I found that Markov chains take into account similar words and punctuation in order to construct sentences that mimic human grammar. Back before the WWW on Usenet, a primitive message board, a user name Mark V. Shaney (get it?) posted Markov garbles of posts from the singles board. Perhaps his best work: "I spent an interesting evening recently with a grain of salt."
Recently some work has been done with similar techniques under the moniker Flarf. One technique is to query Google with a phrase and construct poems out of snippets from the results.

Summary of sound clip. Transition back to spam text. Drop a hint about my text garble script.
	After dada and surrealism and Burroughs there’s a history of the use of a similar method on the Internet outside of spam. Mark V. Shaney used to post on Usenet, a proto-WWW message-board, based on the posts of others using Markov chains. “SOME QUOTE EXPLAINING MARKOV CHAINS.”

	Explanation of simpler-minded but more recent, communal and lively Flarf movement in poetry.
	So, now I have some code written by someone else that I can use to produce my own garbled text from whatever sources I wish. Maybe I’ll include an example. Or walk through the code and explain what it does in more detail.

	Discuss the future or something like that.

Audience/Purpose: People who are into poetry and programming and making art with computers. This will be linked to on my portfolio so there will probably be a lot of people reading this who don’t really dig those things but hopefully the personal narrative style will get them interested and they’ll learn something new and weird and interesting and think I’m cool and want to pay me money for doing stuff.

nothin aoialkgjhalcanl do will ever be cworng aoghal awig t aslfjal no never and theis is a positivie text one tha t you mught aught not faluth fine ahakdfuy. debt and asin and iunothing hath made some frequent love in th rise no matter what you kpt from eay. comsupmtion is a virus. not productice. not destructive, except for it’s own ends. the virus has something to show something to tell and let noknow so to improve. much of our gentic dcoe is viral. mem etic. 
Nehamas:
How do we read Nietzsche?
Is he “consumed but undigested”?
Schopenhauer a Cartesian, Cartesians confused by grammar
One day the atom and the ego will fall out of intellectual favor
Doctrine of freedom of the will persists thanks to refutability
Sections tied together by complicated connections
BGE must be read as a monologue
Philosophy of the future as philosophy that concerns the future
The future is the content of genuine philosophy
BGE should be read self-referentially
Christianity and morality have outlived their usefulness, a persistent theme
‘become master of the chaos one is’
Issues with perspectivism; dogmatism makes a genuine philosopher (until N?)
“But this is only an interpretation”
EXEMPLIFICATION; allow your readers their own thoughts, interpretations, decisions
Philosophers must be suspicious of the ideals and values of their time
BGE a prelude and outline to a philosophy, a work of “dazzling obscurity”

Foucault illustrates how slippery, indefinite, boring, history is and how the search for origin is an adolescent Quixotic metaphysical preoccupation. He concerns himself with definitions, etymologies, and word-choice and usage within Nietzsche’s text. Genealogy is about bodies. 
Deleuze seems more concerned with establishing an accurate vocabulary with facets and niches and plot-holes that lead to schizotategic praxis and truthy understanding.

Reasons relieve, even false ones, and are selected based on emotional needs
We are not casua sui but particular types made up of largely immutable physiological and psychological traits
Moralities are sign-languages of emotion, sprung from fear
Foucault: ‘Nothing is evil, just dangerous.’
“Genealogy is gray, meticulous, and patiently documentary.”
history of morality is nonlinear and nonutilitarian
Genealogy ‘opposes itself to the search for origins’
Listen to history: ‘there is no timeless and essential secret behind things; there’s no essence, just piecemeal fabrication from alien forms.’
At the historical beginning is no inviolable identity, like a human child, but disparity, the dissention of other things
Genealogy’s tone must seem derisive and ironic, because truth eventually comes to be revealed as error baked solid over the heat and pressure of time
“History is the concrete body of development, with its moments of intensity, its lapses, its extended periods of feverish agitation, its fainting spells; and only a metaphysician would seek its soul in the distant ideality of the origin.”
To do genealogy is to discover that truth does not lie at the root of what we know and what we are, but at the exteriority of accidents.
Genealogy thus fragments what seemed unified and disturbs the immobile; hence it is polemic.
Nietzsche uses the term Herkunft, which ultimately refers to the body and how the past has become incarnate in the flesh through a ‘hazardous play of dominations’
Emergence, the entry and eruption of forces
Humanity installs each of its violences in a system of rules and thus proceeds from domination to domination
“Knowledge is not made for understanding; it is made for cutting.” 154
The world is a profusion of entangled events 
True history is parodic, dissociative, and sacrificial.

Horror vacui
“desert,” the goddess of anonymity
Ascetic priest rules over his own hell - first wounds, then heals, and thus tames

genea meant often race or lineage or family
logy of course refers to the words and stories and discourses following genea

Geuss beings referencing Foucault’s ‘71 essay
? What is this ‘genealogical’ form of inquiry
? How is it distinct from other approaches, if at all?
Giving genealogy is the ‘exact reverse’ of tracing a pedigree
Geuss gives the example of the pedigree of Agamemnon’s sceptre given in Iliad Book 2, which serves to legitimize his rule and the aristocracy he heads; holder in assembly gets the right to speak.
There’s an unbroken line of transmission from Zeus, the supreme god, to Agamemnon
Genealogy does valorize or recognize a singular origin
GM points out how Christianity results from the integration of diverse ideas and peoples
The farther back we go the less likely it is we will find a pure positive origin of which we would approve, and that’s OK; what we value now does not need to have an origin of which we approve.
The world of moral concepts grew in blood, and this is neither a good nor bad nor evil
In fact, genealogical history is dependent on or contingent on delusional violence.
Instead of an unbroken, value-preserving line from some divine source like a pedigree, genealogy exposes the complex integrations, interactions and processes that led to now

That is not to say that the truth can only be found in what is useful or preferred
Science could not have arisen from a calculation of usefulness because truth is not more valuable than untruth, especially in regards to utility.
Nietzsche takes seriously the wisdom of Silenus, that full cognition of the truth of existence might prove fatally unbearable to most humans
Nietzsche’s issue with English psychologists is that they will not sacrifice what they wish were the case but instead try to defend this by deduction from illusory premises
Nietzsche obsession with will-to-truth proves he was not a pragmatist
He doesn’t define truth, but rather asks “How & why does the will-to-truth come about?,” leaving the truth to be the truth, however fractious or unbearable it may be
For everday life, taste may be more important than truth

Genealogy of Christianity: Jesus lives in a revolutionary way, people follow him and write of him. Paul misinterprets or perhaps sees an opportunity in this pacifistic movement to impose his own values upon it, and gloms on sin which assumes (falsely, Nietzsche says) freedom of will controlling the exercise of power and guilt which interprets uncomfortable physiological states as punishment for sin.
Luther achieves a feat similar to Paul’s through the Protestant Reformation--reinterpreting and mastering a way of life and system of beliefs.
So cultural institutions like Christianity are composed of successive layers of meanings which have been deposited over the decades.
Practices and interpretations shift and change at differing rates.
Forces, agencies, wills struggle with one another; think USA, UK, Catholic Church, EU, China.
Meaning is modified by competing wills; aggressors encounter active structures and resistant forces like inertia, evasion, counter-measures against impingement.
Each episode of impingement becomes a branching node on the genealogical tree.
Genealogy is the best attempt at a definition of history, or rather the best historical method.
Genealogy traces interpretations -- questions of acting, feeling, and perceiving.
Christian love can be traced from Jewish hatred of the Romans; it is this hatred’s crown.
Paul uses Jesus’ radically non-moralizing form of life as a rallying cry for a slave revolt in morals, overturning the noble good/bad distinction with the good/evil one

Nietzsche’s campaign seems to be counter to Paul: ‘Dionysius against the Crucified’ (cite).
He does history in the form of genealogy to serve life.
Discipline for it’s own sake becomes a dangerous cultural cancer.
The value of certain moralities varies on cultural context: asceticism sometimes helps and prolongs life.
Significance and meaning are given and/or imposed, not inherent.
Creatives need ascetic ideals because they have to channel their energy into a specific medium and cannot be too diffuse; they can’t be drunk all the time, to use Geuss’ example.
Christianity sees ascetic ideals as an end in itself, which undermines life.
For Nietzsche ascetic ideals need to become renaturalized in order to enhance and affirm life -- science and the will-to-truth are instances of the ascetic ideal of which he seems to approve.
Science grows from the moral demand to not deceive and always tell the truth, which makes it an ascetic ideal because we must be truthful even if the truth would cause us to not get what we want.
Science is a natural condition for life-improvement but not inherently true or absolutely valuable.

Genealogy’s role is not direct attacking critique because it cannot support or legitimize value-claims of forms of valuation; Genealogy’s capable of undermining beliefs in the same sense that the value of medicine is independent of what the sick person believes about it (Whaaat?).
“Christianity dissolves itself” if Nietzsche shows that Christianity requires its adherents to lie then for the Christian this is a damning indictment though for Nietzsche of little evaluative significance. However, his genealogy does not justify his positive valuation of life; that’s taken for granted.

Deleuze says N’s project is introducing sense and value concepts into philosophy for the purpose of a critique
Kant did not perform a critique because he uses no value terms
To philosophize with a hammer is to critique in terms of values
Evaluation assumes principles with which to appraise phenomena
“Perspectives of appraisal”
Critiques concern the value of values, the evaluations from which their value arises, the problem of their creation, and evaluations as ways of being
Evaluation is the differential element of corresponding values, both critical and creative
From whence does the value of value derive?
What’s the origin of values?
Nietzsche opposes the philsophical laborers, the tribunal judges like Kant as well as the utilitarian mechanics like Mill; he strives to be a genealogist, like Hesiod
The differential element is Nietzsche’s pathos of difference (distance) which comes from master/slave dichotomies within ancient noble societies
this pathos of difference substitutes for Kant’s universality and utilitarian resemblance
Genealogy is concerned with the value of origin and the origin of values specifically nobility and vulgarity, nobility and decadence, nobility and baseness
Critique is active, a natural aggression
Genealogy requires distance of time and suspension of judgement to effectively interpret and evaluate
Hierarchy and distinction are the art of nobility
‘Evolution is the reactive image of genealogy’ scientific but used by English pyschologists to their own utilities p39
Genealogy evaluates the origin of forces from the point of view of their nobility or baseness and discovers ancestry within the will to power and the quality of this will p48

Well, Camus’ The Plague was difficult to read because the pace was slow and the subject matter quite morbid. The pace got to me more than the morbidity, in the end. I got some ways into Part Four. Each time I picked up the book I finished a bit less and bit more slowly. Almost as though I were dying from the bubonic mnemonic pneumonic plague or more literally my interest in and engagement with the book died that metaphorical way. The characters were interesting but there were quite a few to keep track of and none developed so well that I couldn’t lose interest fairly fast. I find the distinct lack of women characters strange. I should think that during a time of plague at least a woman caretaker’s story would merit inclusion. I can hardly blame Camus for a lack of mental androgyny, however. Just as “newspapers are concerned only with the street” (35), it’s difficult to write about the other gender. Writing outside of one’s own lot is bleeding difficult.
I’m not sure I understand human nature the way that Camus does. I’m not sure what he is trying to say. Maybe I’m a petulant child. Difficult to say. Whorled.
There’s a plague affecting us all every day of our lives. The plague from the pit — fear. Paralyzing, polarizing, foot-dragging fear. We keep our ‘selves’ in check by closing our mouths and hearing what we want to say echo in our heads and then fade away. Lost opportunities, taken for granted. Surely another chance will come. We’re overloaded everyday with images fantastic and unreal which tap into our dreaming multitude— the parliament that decides what our (ancestral) conscious monarch will decree, before, during, and after whatever happens to us. We believe we’re in control but we’re just a player in a collective hallucination, an illusion manipulated by media, art, rhetoric, image, narrative —prodding our every weak-spot, tickling every button, making implicit promises no one can keep. Disaster seems to lurk behind every trivial choice we may make. And we’re not sure the choices are ours. Just the absurd but necessary.
Of course we’re not all the same, not all equal. Some of us have this skill or that, this weakness or that. Power is not evenly distributed. We’re not all special. My everyday audience must be the people from whom I want something, people by whom I may have some sort of advantage or desire filled. Am I being too brutal and honest? No. Quiet desperation leads nowhere but back to that weak position that horrified you before, that propelled you running in your flight into some fantasy or subordination. Some supporting role, divided, split into two equal and immobile parts. Irony’s the song of a bird who has learned to love it’s cage, said the late David Foster Wallace. When your wings grow back, bite the cage-keeper on their cowardly fingers and fly away, little bird. Hunt for your own food. Find or build your own shelter. Defend yourself. But don’t let your “self” become just another cage, another trap. Specialization is for insects. And guess what, metaphor’s over— you’re an ape at the top of the food chain. Bare your teeth and play along.
This plague fear keeps us clutching ourselves and those we know. Risk, chance, luck do not occur to us. We don’t let them. We cling to our stories and mistakes and wins like they still mean something, like they’re still happening, over and over again. No regrets means no reminiscences either. Nostalgia hurts anesthetic. Be equal to your deeds and ideas. No one but your fellows are keeping watch, score, tabs. And even then, not too closely. What you are equal to or beyond, you can get away with. This plague is no divine pestilence.
Tarrou gives that impossibly long speech to Rieux towards the end when they decide to just be friends for a while. No one monologues for that long. His basic point seems to be that he wants to reduce the amount of violence inherent in civilization by siding with the individual against institutions in every case. Or something counter-cultural. “I try, in short, to be an innocent murderer” (254). His concept of the pestilence that all of us share seems to be a violence inherent in every established societal order. Tarrou ends up dying of the plague.
Life can be absurd, if we choose that way of understanding or are driven to it by circumstances. Camus’ experience of war heavily influenced The Plague. I wonder, though, if he might have been better off dropping the allegory and writing a fictionalized memoir.
Cut-Up Flarfing Markov
I like to read spam emails.
Less so now than before — my research removed much of the mystery. I remember sitting in my mom's basement, in front of the same Macbook on which I now type, for hours on end during the semester I attended UMKC. That was my third semester in college, my second year. My second semester had been a disaster. I was scared, sad, and bored. Checking my email, some piece of spam trickled through my filter and into my inbox. Besides whatever advertisement the body of the message contained, some appended text had slipped the email past Google filters and into my consciousness. But it was nonsense:
cushion “Stole softly public money that had been intrusted blush to skinhim, in fact?” The woken flight question had almost the tone of a challenge, and Montanelli shrank and delicious shivered present under it as unde”Signora Bolla, you brain and I have gone too far to stuck play atcompliments and wrestle cow modest denials now. Tell me hdrink “To tramp? father well With boy that lame foot!” hook “B-burnt slopealmonds! Why d-didn’t you tell scribble me before seed I began to s-smoke?” he cried reproachfully.
I had a neglected blog at the time. An experiment, I had written posts in the voices of different members of a science-fictional futuristic musical group, experimenting with writing accent, dialect, and humor. I lost interest in the project after introductory posts from each of the members. That blog, however, became my spam prose and poetry blog. The above text is the contents of the first post in that vein.
So instead of ignoring my Gmail Spam folder, I began to explore. The text I found was fascinating. I realized that these weirdly meaningful paragraphs must come from a computer program that scrambled text from the internet. For years, as a sort of underground hobby of which I told nary a soul, I would post to the blog. Realizing this stuff had implications for artificial intelligence and natural language processing as well as the avant garde, I named my blog after Douglas Hofstadter's book Godel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid — Koopa, Escher, Weezy: A Transient Silver Fairytail.
I only recently realized that what I have been doing is not entirely deviant. Other people have been making art out of found web-text since at least 2001, and the methods used to create such text have been around for amusement for much longer. Not to mention, the surrealist and dada movements that established similar methods as art almost a century ago. One of my initial thoughts about the text I found in spam was of William Burroughs and the cut-up method.

I wrote a script to imitate this method that I called Garble. My technique was not faithful to Burrough's in that Garble treats all characters equally except the space, not distinguishing line-breaks or punctuation from letters. After brief research I found that Markov chains take into account similar words and punctuation in order to construct sentences that mimic human grammar. Back before the WWW on Usenet, a primitive message board, a user name Mark V. Shaney posted Markov garbles of posts from the singles board. Perhaps his best work: "I spent an interesting evening recently with a grain of salt."
Recently some work has been done with similar techniques under the moniker Flarf. One technique is to query Google with a phrase and construct poems out of snippets from the results.

Would that any of this compared to James Joyce's masterpiece, Finnegans Wake, similarly nonsensical but much more cohesive, denser with meaning, obliquely thematic. With programmatic text generation, source material makes all the difference. The artificial intelligence research that produced the Markov techniques has stalled and their methods have been picked up by spammers. These are dark days for rorschach projects. Perhaps some day a conscious neural net will recognize Mark V. Shaney as an ancestor. Joyce summarizes best:
JUSTIUS (to himother): Brawn is my name and broad is my nature and I've breit on my brow and all's right with every feature and I'll brune this bird ol' Brown Bess's bung's gone bandy. I'm the boy to bruise and braise. Baus!
“Understanding Nietzschean Genealogy”

“Posthumous men—I, for example—are understood worse than timely ones, but heard better. More precisely: we are never understood—hence our authority” (M&A 15, Twilight of the Idols).
    The posthumous man appears before his time and therefore suffers a lack of comprehension by his contemporaries. His work endures because readers detect some passion, a deeper structure, semantic richness and valid syntactic complexity. To understand is to perceive the significance, explanation, or intended meaning of something. To recognize, grasp, absorb, digest, decipher, fathom it. If a reader recognizes semantic depth and syntactic validity but one or both overloads his comprehensive capacity, then all they do is hear and suffer the haunting whispers, repeated phrases and implicit re-evaluations, even if they never understand. They might revere the author or attack him as a result. Either way, the author then has power over them. “[H]ence [...] authority.” Excuse the pun(s), but then hence the herd stands under?
    The heard stands under history, the meta-narrative or, to use Foucault’s term, supra-narrative, which ties together our/their experience and provides us/them with rudiments of identity. A genealogy unweaves meta-narrative history in the Herodotean sense of history as a weaving together of disparate and contradictory narratives to create a cohesive and explanatory whole. Genealogy relates to etymology in tracing the changes and cracks and fissures and mixtures and integrations and violences and syntheses and scars and shapes and threads between what was and is and comes to be. What do our words mean? The question here is of method: Herodotos makes sure to synthesize what seems most reasonable to him from his touristic Greek perspective. He also gives alternate accounts which he has heard as long as they add another interesting facet or possibility to the story. He most often defers to the Egyptians and their ancient records (Groten).
Nietzsche’s method seems more meticulous. He refuses to manipulate the “conceptual mummies” which have been the playthings of earlier philosophers. He follows the clashes of wills—like what Foucault calls dominations and Deleuze forces. Raymond Geuss calls Nietzsche’s wills agencies, and compares genealogy to another classical historical form in the pedigree of Agamemnon’s sceptre in Iliad Book 2. Unlike such a pedigree, Nietzsche’s genealogy removes or at least suspends value judgement and intentionality, and does not assume singular origin or approved and peaceful transfer of value. For something as old and widespread as morality, time becomes geologic and the genealogist becomes an archaeologist digging through layers of sediment, minerals, dirt, and entombed concepts. This is hard work. Tedious, finding patterns across temporal territories: Nietzsche and then Foucault call genealogy ‘gray.’ Since genealogical history is contingent upon violence, perhaps a better metaphor in color would be dried-blood red. The realm of origins is “the realm of radical insignificance, not of heightened meaningfulness” (Geuss).
This sense of radical insignificance hints at the polemical nature of Nietzsche’s Genealogy. Christians will interpret it as an attack on their belief systems, or more precisely, because he points out that the Christian conception of truth and honesty eventually undermines (Geuss says “dissolves”) Christian dogma, leaving science. His rejection of the search for a singular unified origin does violence to the traditional Christian narrative on the origin of their morality, that God inspired Jesus and Paul. Nietzsche undermines any sense that truth corresponds with utility or is entirely pleasant. He takes seriously the wisdom of Silenus: that full cognition of the truth of existence might prove fatally unbearable to most humans. The farther back in time one travels, the messier lineages get, and the more inconsequential. There is no singular origin for anything human. However, there are many absurdities, violences, contingencies, and other less-than-pleasant psuedo-random interactions resulting in synthetic forms and reinterpreted molds (Geuss).
People come from a variety of families, lineages, and races. The Greek root genea means just these terms. Nietzsche, and especially Foucault, concern themselves with human resemblance, physiology, and body. History shimmers through our muscles, scars, hair-line, teeth, skin-tone, fat-deposits, jaw-line, hair, nose, bone-structure, digit-length, ad nauseum. Whether they reflect genetic, epigenetic, bacterial, viral, or interpersonal trajectories remains for the scientists, the ascetic priests of our secular globe.
Certain types of people become ascetic priests in order to survive and exert their will upon others. They first wound, then heal, and thus tame. Their power derives from the slave’s reservoir of hatred, ressentiment. Ressentiment is a feeling of resentment, anger and frustration that is impossible to express directly.  In the oppressed, a sense of inferiority inspires the creation of a system of values.  This value system begins with a negative evaluation of that which is perceived to be to blame for this inferiority complex.  Nietzsche sees this reactive creativity as the inevitable consequence of the hierarchical societies that arose when humans developed agriculture (Antichrist §57). Ressentiment grows within those who lack the power to act, namely, the slave class.
Slave morality, as Nietzsche defines it, was born out of the ressentiment of the weak and put-upon.  This morality based in ressentiment first categorizes the noble ruling class as ‘evil’ and then afterwards might recognize itself as ‘good.’  Instead of immediately acting in revenge and forgetting the injury or slight as a noble does, a person of the slave class must allow the psychological wound to fester because of their position in society.  This dull, continuous pain begets a certain type of knowledge and creativity.  This creativity demonizes that which is different.  The slave morality’s creative act is not an affirmation like with noble morality; “No is its creative deed” (GM I §10).  The Jewish faith and its spiritual descendent, the Christians, have a morality based in the ressentiment of their ancestors.
Master morality, on the other hand, is born out of the spontaneous creativity of the strong and “develops from a triumphant affirmation of itself” (ibid).  Nietzsche uses the morality of the Greeks and Romans as an example.  The noble first recognize themselves and their actions as ‘good.’  In dismissive afterthought, they might characterize those whom they lord over and what they do as ‘bad.’  Unlike the smoldering hatred of the slaves towards their masters, enshrined in language as the concept of evil, the ‘bad’ of master morality only recognizes the undesirability of the slave position.  Nietzsche admits masters to be happy yet brutish, delighting in violent conquest and acts of cruelty.
Nietzsche does not divide all cultures along such strict lines.  Clearly, he dislikes the popular European morality of his time, which is derived from what he has described as a slave morality.  However, he also says that with ressentiment, people become interesting in that the concept of evil is born.  Ressentiment makes people cleverer.  With the triumph of slave morality, people are no longer just spontaneously creative but can will something for longer than their short memory allows (GM II §1).  No longer simply animals acting on instinct, they acquire depth.
Farther into Nietzsche’s metaphorical edifice, proactive and reactive creativity are the result of different strengths of will.  The weak-willed, the ‘lambs,’ condemn those with strong wills, the ‘birds of prey.’  However, Nietzsche argues, the birds of prey cannot help killing lambs.  The birds of prey are no subject, simply an expressed will-to-power.  To suggest that there is a separate, detached subject that can decide whether or not to will a certain action would be fallacy.  Therefore, strong wills necessarily dominate weak ones. The proactive and reactive creativities are simply the result of the will acting in whatever way it can.  Humans have a horror vacui and “will sooner will nothingness than not will” (GM III §1).
Our modern morality shows the influence of both slave and master morality. The Greeks and Romans have strongly influenced our laws and forms of government, not to mention art and architecture.  The Judeo-Christian tradition has also had a strong influence on modern morality and a plurality of the world’s population still identifies with one of the associated religious groups.  Societal structure is not as clear and stratified as it once was, so the master-slave dichotomy gives an incomplete and imprecise picture of modern morality.  Indeed, this was the case in Nietzsche’s time, and he feared that because of the widespread influence of the Judeo-Christian morality Europe was becoming dull and mediocre.  However, he was not so simple-minded as to recommend a wholesale conversion to a brutish master morality.  He recognized that the mixture of these two seemingly opposite forms of morality allows for strength with self-restraint.  He saw the strength to make promises as one of the best things to come from the modern ‘mixture of races’ (GM II §1).
This mixture also causes the emergence of novel physiological types. Deleuze says that “genealogy means nobility and baseness, nobility and vulgarity, nobility and decadence in the origin” (2). The pathos of distance, what Deleuze calls the differential element, “is both a critique of the value of values and the positive element of a creation” (ibid). Hence critique is an active natural aggression and not rooted in ressentiment. The theories of the English psychologists which Nietzsche attacks grow out of evolutionism, “the reactive image of genealogy” (D 39). Nietzsche uses the term Herkunft, which for Foucault ultimately refers to the body and how the past has become incarnate in the flesh through a ‘hazardous play of dominations.’
For everyday life, taste may be more important than truth. That is not to say that the truth can only be found in what is useful or preferred. Science could not have arisen from a calculation of usefulness because truth is not more valuable than untruth, especially in regards to utility. Nietzsche’s issue with English psychologists is that they will not sacrifice what they wish were the case but instead try to defend this by deduction from illusory premises. Nietzsche’s obsession with will-to-truth suggests he was not a pragmatist. He doesn’t define truth, but rather asks “How and why does the will-to-truth come about?,” leaving the truth to be the truth, however fractious or unbearable it may be (Geuss).
Reasons relieve, even false ones, and are often selected based on emotional needs rather than their truth. We are not casua sui (self-caused) but of a particular type which is made up of largely immutable physiological and psychological traits. Moralities are sign-languages of emotion, sprung from fear. Thus the history of morality is nonlinear and nonutilitarian, even irrational. Genealogy ‘opposes itself to the search for origins;’ Listen to history: ‘there is no timeless and essential secret behind things; there’s no essence, just piecemeal fabrication from alien forms.’ At the historical beginning is no inviolable identity, like a human child, but disparity, the dissention of other things. Genealogy’s tone must seem derisive and ironic, because truth eventually comes to be revealed as error baked solid over the heat and pressure of time. “History is the concrete body of development, with its moments of intensity, its lapses, its extended periods of feverish agitation, its fainting spells; and only a metaphysician would seek its soul in the distant ideality of the origin.” To do genealogy is to discover that truth does not lie at the root of what we know and what we are, but at the exteriority of accidents. Genealogy thus fragments what seemed unified and disturbs the immobile; hence it is polemic (Foucault paraphrased, summarized, misquoted).
Humanity installs each of its violences in a system of rules and thus proceeds from domination to domination. “Knowledge is not made for understanding; it is made for cutting” (F 154). The world is a profusion of entangled events. True history is parodic (against reality; opposing history as reminiscence of recognition), dissociative (against identity; opposes history as continuous or representative of tradition), and sacrificial (against truth; opposes history as knowledge) (Foucault). On the Genealogy of Morals points out how Christianity results from the integration of diverse ideas and peoples. The farther back we go the less likely it is we will find a pure positive origin of which we would approve, and for Nietzsche there is nothing wrong with that; what we value now does not need to have an origin of which we approve to achieve a life-affirming evaluation. The world of moral concepts grew in blood, and this is neither a good nor bad nor evil. Genealogical history is dependent on—contingent upon—delusional violence (F? G?).
The genealogy of Christianity follows: Jesus lived in a revolutionary way and people followed him and wrote of him. Paul misinterpreted or perhaps saw an opportunity in this pacifistic movement to impose his own values upon it, namely sin, which assumes (falsely, Nietzsche says) freedom of will controlling the exercise of power, and guilt, which interprets uncomfortable physiological states as punishment for sin. Luther achieved a feat similar to Paul’s through the Protestant Reformation— reinterpreting and mastering a way of life and system of beliefs. So, cultural institutions like Christianity are composed of successive layers of meanings which have been deposited over the decades. Practices and interpretations shift and change at differing rates. Forces, agencies, wills struggle with one another; think USA, UK, Catholic Church, EU, China (Geuss).
Meaning is modified by these competing wills; aggressors encounter active structures and resistant forces like inertia, evasion, and counter-measures against impingement. Each episode of impingement becomes a branching node on the genealogical tree. Genealogy is the best attempt at a definition of history, or rather the best historical method. Genealogy traces interpretations —questions of acting, feeling, and perceiving. Christian love can be traced from Jewish hatred of the Romans; it is this hatred’s crown. Paul uses Jesus’ radically non-moralizing form of life as a rallying cry for a slave revolt in morals, overturning the noble good/bad distinction only to establish the good/evil of ressentiment.
Nietzsche’s campaign attempts to counter Paul: ‘Dionysius against the Crucified.’ He does history in the form of genealogy to serve life. Discipline for it’s own sake becomes a dangerous cultural cancer. The value of certain moralities varies on cultural context: asceticism sometimes helps and prolongs life. Significance and meaning are given and/or imposed, not inherent. Creatives need ascetic ideals because they have to channel their energy into a specific medium and cannot be too diffuse; they can’t be drunk all the time, to use Geuss’ example (Bob Dylan).
Christianity sees ascetic ideals as an end in itself, which undermines life. For Nietzsche ascetic ideals need to become renaturalized in order to enhance and affirm life—science and the will-to-truth are instances of the ascetic ideal of which he seems to approve. Science grows from the moral demand to not deceive and always tell the truth, which makes it an ascetic ideal because we must be truthful even if the truth would cause us to not get what we want. Science is a natural condition for life-improvement but not inherently true or absolutely valuable.
Genealogy’s role is not direct attacking critique because it cannot support or legitimize value-claims of forms of valuation; “Christianity dissolves itself”—if Nietzsche shows that Christianity requires its adherents to lie then, for the Christian, this is a damning indictment, though for Nietzsche of little evaluative significance. However, his genealogy does not justify his positive valuation of life; that’s taken for granted.
To philosophize with a hammer is to critique in terms of values. Evaluation assumes principles with which to appraise phenomena: “Perspectives of appraisal.”  Critiques concern the value of values, the evaluations from which their value arises, the problem of their creation, and evaluations as ways of being. Evaluation is the differential element of corresponding values, both critical and creative. Nietzsche opposes the ‘philosophical laborers,’ the ‘tribunal judges’ like Kant as well as the utilitarian ‘mechanics’ like Bentham; he strives to be a genealogist in the vein of Hesiod. The differential element is Nietzsche’s pathos of difference (distance) which comes from master/slave dichotomies within ancient societies. This pathos of difference substitutes for Kant’s universality and utilitarian resemblance. Genealogy is concerned with the value of origin and the origin of values and as such requires distance of time and suspension of judgement to effectively interpret and evaluate. Hierarchy and distinction are the art of nobility. Genealogy evaluates the origin of forces from the point of view of their nobility or baseness and discovers ancestry within the will to power and the quality of this will (Deleuze 48).
“For Nietzsche it is a fact that Christianity is a tissue of lies, but this fact is of no particular evaluative significance;” (Geuss 287). Mass on Sunday morning after heavy drinking on Saturday night—The Blood of Christ. Amen.
I would like to make sense of Negarestani, so Islam in Europe would seem to be the logical class
Additionally taking Greek & Roman myth might keep me focused and entertainingly engaged
May need to negotiate with Gordon on terms of admission to Honors class
Logistically would a noon class in JRP work?
Must read “Iliad, Poem of Force’ essay by Simone Weil
Trauma seems like an important theme to explore
Could still audit Art Since 1945 on Mondays...

My intellectual project currently has to do with puns and wordplay and ‘deconstructing’ words and phrases into smaller constituent sug-jestive parts. Study of etymology/Latin nessessary
"Eternity is in love with the productions of time" -- William Blake

Compare and contrast the gods in book alpha and book omega to make generalisations about their behavior and role.  Do the gods learn from this whole fiasco? One would think...

we're allowed to examine and admire the gods as they do us

Religion as it relates to madness--religion and religious experience as beneficial hallucination. Can't explain away the presence of the gods in the Iliad. They must be believed for the story to work. Suspend your disbelief!
Could Homer's more light-hearted depictions of the gods interacting reflect how various cults interacted in his day?

Gods are detached, relaxed, spectators, 

Kearns:
Events often have both divine and mortal cause
Gods live on Mt. Olympus, undersea, or underground
In Iliad gods are precisely defined individuals, though in practice they were gods of place
Can hear prayers and enjoy sacrifices from anywhere, but also constrained by space
Oracles and prophets play a part but all Greeks, esp. heroes, can interpret signs
Heroes privileged with communication with gods
Gods often disguised themselves, humans recognize them or not
Often snatch up favorites in clouds of mist to save their lives
Epiphany scenes typically preceded by narrative about or description of the god who appears, explanation of their motives, and often talking with another god
Gods and humans can procreate
Mortal women bearing a god's baby was not uncommon or problematic; goddesses carrying mortal babies subverts expectation, making Achilles special
Homer is "strangely omniscient"
Gods have favorites and compete through their affairs, though they pity and stand aloof from people
Gods contrast to serious tragic heroes; Being stronger than and superior to men gods act as a foil illuminating the heroic and tragic nature of the human condition

Barnes:
Gods anthropomorphic, meddling in the world of men
Homer didn't invent the Greek pantheon but surely shaped it to his needs within the poem
Consistency is an invention of the human mind
Religious belief and literary device "inextricably intertwined"
"Just what do the gods and goddesses contribute to the Iliad and Odyssey?"
Gods add sense of cosmic conflict--they were "engrossed" in Trojan war, "eternal beings take on temporal dimensions"
Achilles' first battle after the death of Patroclus results in Xanthos choked with corpses
Achilles ignores order to desist, Xanthos floods at him, Hephaestus fires at Hera's bidding savin his ass
Poseidon is the sea itself
Sky-god and earth goddess as prototype for all sexual unions
Sun can alter course at divine command
"The gods bestow favors only on those who deserve them"
In book five Diomedes wounds Aphrodite and Ares with Athena's help--mortal veil is lifted and he fights on the same level as the gods in the same way he'd fight on the mortal plain
Supernatural world allows for symbolism without direct allegory
Ares is the spirit of battle, can be breathed in or stirred up
Gods perform duties of tragic chorus
They contribute to and enjoy the spectacle
Greeks go for tragic irony over suspense
Gods as parental figures, oppressors, in but not of the human world
Interventions as poetic embroidery
Miraculous rescues (deus ex machina) make heroes look great (Aeneus) or cowardly (Paris)
Gods never kill but they explain Chance
Psychological interventions, dreams from gods in disguise
Gods seen as personifications of emotions, attitudes, psychological states
Aphrodite and Helen
"A god stole his senses from him"
Zeus considers in his phren, does what seems best to his thumos

Why does Ares side with Troy?

Achilles seems to think that obeying Athena will improve his chances that she hear his prayers, however. Does it? Probably beyond the scope of the Iliad.

When not under the eye (opis) of Zeus, sky god, humans are left to their own devices. So, like, he can't see what's going on and help as readily when it's cloudy out or something?

The Trojan war falls out from a contest begun by Eris, goddess of chaos (24.22-30). Why does Homer introduce the initiatory mythology so late? 

Apollo indirectly caused Achilles' rage, through his plague and alliance with the Trojans, which incites Agamemnon's petulant snatching of Briseis. Athena keeps Achilles from attacking Agamemnon, but to Thetis Achilles prays for succor in his rage. Except for Thetis rising out of the sea like a mist, her answer to his prayer much resembles the concern of a human mother. Athena's interest in Achilles seems more impersonal, more a consequence of her and Hera's vendetta against Trojan Paris. Thetis pleads with Zeus per Achilles' suggestion that she call in a mythological debt unrelated to the affairs of men. 

The Greek gods have overwhelming power, live in extreme luxury on a peaceful Olympus. They enjoy the spectacle of human affairs. They ease their eternal boredom through the world of men. 

Homer focuses his attention on the heroes, giving ordinary soldiers their nominal due. The heroes, still human in limitation, still mortal, in contrast with the gods, show the human potential for glory. Without the gods, in say Shakespeare's Troilus and Cressida, the Trojan war becomes an example of aristocratic excess and abuse of power--all feasts, obtuse speeches, gore, and male privilege.

OH YEAH I DIDNT FORGET ABOUT HOMER AND HIP HOP FO REAL SEE GODS AND RAP
epithets, repeated phrases
have you listened to biggie, tupac, jay z, nas' illmatic, etc? how about farther back like nwa and public enemy? how about acts like dead prez, krs one, immortal technique? a tribe called quest, the roots, cannibal ox, company flow, the fugees, de la soul, wale's seinfeld album
Samurai Showdown - RZA

catalog of ships ~ shout outs with emphasis on locality
east london - dizzee? funky?
hip hop from a 90s kid perspective

MASHUPS - cognitive dissonance, often excellent compositions in their own right, like this one. Lots of people at this these days. Totally illegal from a copyright perspective.
voice of the ego, stream of consciousness, storytelling, posturing, battles; what is authentic about hip hop?

KRS-One's I Can't Wake Up is a creative shout out track, like the catalog of ships a bit, without location
Need a battle track, where the MC's are dissing on each other

OUTKAST

Let me switch focus here, for a second. Homeric religion has not gone away. No, indeed I think we can find Homeric gods among us today in the form of celebrities. Like all of the other observations I have made in my paper thus far, this is not a new insight. However, I would like to relate the gods to hip hop music. Perhaps this gets beyond the assignment too much. Perhaps I need to go back, and dive into the Greek to prove my original thesis, which seems to be that the gods undergo some sort of transformation over the course of the epic, mirroring changes among the humans. I don't really have anything concrete there, at this point. So, who is Zeus today in the rap game? Is that really a relevant, interesting, or answerable question. Probably not. Rap is male dominated and so rappers play the role of heros more than they do of gods, though they often do in their lyrics justify and glorify certain lifestyles. 

    The Homeric gods won me over. Initially, I reduced them to various theoretical constructs. My views resembled those of Xenophanes, though less judgmental. Even as superhuman characters, of which popular culture keeps my head full, they engender sympathy. I want to move beyond a Nietzschean apologetics.
    "It is only by contrast with mankind that the gods become fully aware of their grandeur and their oneness." -- W. F. OttoFrom a footnote in Jasper Griffin's book, Homer on Life and Death. In the last two chapters I found a thorough and engaged consideration of the gods in Homer's Iliad. 
    Otto packs accuracies into this quote: Homer's gods are limited, at least in their self-knowledge; they resemble mankind enough that such a contrast improves their self-knowledge; yet this self-knowledge does not lead to fractures among them but rather to greater cohesion. They cohere under the aegis of Zeus over the course of the epic.
    Like Nietzsche and Xenophanes, my first instinct when considering the Homeric gods is to abstract them, but the poem loses meaning if I do not suspend my disbelief. When I consider the gods to be a pan-Aegean consensual hallucination, bringing order to their sensitive madness in a Nietzschean vein; or a class metaphor a la Marx; or a literary device explaining Greek psychology; or a commentary on the relations between various cults, I remove myself from the story, in which the gods are real.
    Xenophanes objects to Homer's method of realizing the divine. Against Homer, Xenophanes blasphemed. 
From <http://history.hanover.edu/texts/presoc/Xenophan.html>, "Xenophanes Fragments and Commentary", Arthur Fairbanks, ed. and trans. The First Philosophers of Greece (London: K. Paul, Trench, Trubner, 1898), 65-85. 
Of course, Homer blasphemed against Xenophanes conception of the divine first: a non-anthro, omniscient, omnipotent greatestness. Some fragments of Xenophanes include exhortation to honor the gods, nevertheless. His explication of a divine more perfect and abstract than the all-too-human Homeric gods seems to leave room for them, anyway.
    Xenophanes, instead of explaining sky-phenomena with Zeus, condemned this common view and instead explained most everything in terms of cloud permutations. So, Zeus was replaced with condensed water floating in the sky. Even he went so far as to say that Iris, the rainbow, was a special type of cloud, that the moon was condensed cloud, that the sun was condensed cloud on fire, and other bizarre assertions.According to Aëtius, from the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: <http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/xenophanes>.  Still, this places him with the proto-scientist philosophers, pre-Socrates.
-/- break
    Hazel Barnes begins her "Homer and the meddling gods"From The Meddling Gods, (Lincoln, University of Nebraska Press ,1974) 97-124.  with a quote: 'Nietzsche, in The Birth of Tragedy, says the Greek "gods justify human life by living it themselves--the only satisfactory theodicy."' As readers, we have a gods-eye view of the action involving men and that involving the godsBrought to my attention by: Kearns, Emily. "The Gods in the Homeric epics." Robert Fowler, ed. The Cambridge companion to Homer. (Cambridge : Cambridge University Press, 2004). . One would imagine that to hear a rhapsode tell of how Zeus threatens Hera would validate such husband-wife interactions for the hearers. Or, at minimum, the perspective allows for Zeus-like judgement, detached but favoring one's own kind. 
    While Homer satisfies Nietzsche's thirst for justice, Xenophanes finds no comfort in anthropomorphic divinity. Barnes notes that, for example, Poseidon in Homer is the sea itself, though at junctures Homer allows him human form and functions like speech. Did some ancients think that Xenophanes was simply an agent of Poseidon, ascribing him the clouds which Zeus by tradition controlled (what? does xenophanes have the same idea of clouds as condensed water that we do)? Though those not understanding his more abstract divine conception may have understood such comments thusly, equating the de-theologized words for these natural phenomena with the gods anyhow. Nothing I have seen suggests suchly.
    The gods are first characters--actors in Homer's drama. Immortal, their lives lack the tragic weight which animates human lives. Gods are often detached, relaxed, spectators. They also contribute to and contrast with the nasty brutish business of the gore on the Trojan plain. Clouds of dust and mist, thunder claps, plague-bearing arrows, rain of blood, collapsing walls, over-flowing and flaming rivers are all attributed to various gods.
    Nevertheless, the gods reflect humanity from book one. First, however, we see them in their divine glory, later explained away by germs and psychology, as Apollo brings plague and Athena appears to check Achilles. Thetis comes 'like a mist' before her aggrieved son Achilles, and travels to Olympus to petition Zeus. Here we see the gods at home, imperfect and recognizably human. Zeus' first reaction to Thetis' request that he favor the Trojans to give glory to Achilles is to worry about how Hera will react. Here his involvement in the war below seems removed, and he agrees with his earth-shaking nod. Upon his return to the halls of Olympus, Hera indeed does become angry with him. The situation devolves into Zeus threatening to hit her. The mood tenses among the gods. Hephaestus then has to break the tension by serving Hera wine and comforting her, telling a story about how Zeus threw him off a balcony and making all the other gods laugh and resume their merriment, which closely resembles the feast that the Greeks and Trojan priest share earlier in book one, though the gods make no sacrifices.Summaries of Homer's Iliad based on Stanley Lombardo's translation. 
    Homer focuses his attention on the heroes for much of the rising action, giving ordinary soldiers their nominal due. The heroes, still human in limitation, still mortal, in contrast with the gods, show the human potential for glory. Without the gods, in say Shakespeare's Troilus and Cressida, the Trojan war becomes an example of aristocratic excess and abuse of power--all feasts, obtuse speeches, gore, and male privilege. The gods add a sense of cosmic conflict and contrast with the tragic heroes. The heroes pray constantly. Piety, however, does not guarantee answered prayers.
    "Eternity is in love with the productions of time" -- William Blake.Griffin thusly begins "The Divine Audience and the Religion of the Iliad," the last chapter of Homer on Life and Death. (Oxford : Clarendon Press ; New York : Oxford University Press, 1980).  Gods love but do not die; they won’t let people spoil their good time. They do pity humanity. When Patroclus dies and even Peleus' immortal horses mourn his loss, Zeus says "Nothing is more miserable than man/Of all that breathes and moves upon earth,"17.459-60, Lombardo's translation.  a line echoed at the beginning of the Odyssey.
    Homer does not reveal the initial cause for the war and the investment of the pantheon until the final chapter. The disagreement over what to do with Hector's body prompts the explanation. The myth referred to implicates Eris, strife and chaos personified. The genitive of ἄτη modifies Paris' title (wrong?). This word I associate with tragedy, specifically the Antigone and Medea, in which more meaning resides in the word, probably. Hector must be the most tragic character in the Iliad.
ὣς ὃ μὲν Ἕκτορα δῖον ἀείκιζεν μενεαίνων:
τὸν δ᾽ ἐλεαίρεσκον μάκαρες θεοὶ εἰσορόωντες,
κλέψαι δ᾽ ὀτρύνεσκον ἐΰσκοπον ἀργεϊφόντην.
25
ἔνθ᾽ ἄλλοις μὲν πᾶσιν ἑήνδανεν, οὐδέ ποθ᾽ Ἥρῃ
οὐδὲ Ποσειδάων᾽ οὐδὲ γλαυκώπιδι κούρῃ,
ἀλλ᾽ ἔχον ὥς σφιν πρῶτον ἀπήχθετο Ἴλιος ἱρὴ
καὶ Πρίαμος καὶ λαὸς Ἀλεξάνδρου ἕνεκ᾽ ἄτης,
ὃς νείκεσσε θεὰς ὅτε οἱ μέσσαυλον ἵκοντο,
30
τὴν δ᾽ ᾔνησ᾽ ἥ οἱ πόρε μαχλοσύνην ἀλεγεινήν.
    Hector’s body plays a role similar to the one that Briseis and Chryses' daughter play in book one. In omega, book 24, the gods and men air their grievances but show respect and restraint. Apollo makes the case for having Hermes steal Hector’s body, Hera retorts bringing up Achilles’ immortal mother, and Zeus sends Iris to get Thetis so he can tell her to tell Achilles to ransom Hector. Zeus here makes a decision which compromises between two extremes, though still favors Achilles' divine connection. Instead of focusing on Hector's laudable piety to him or Achilles' divine mother he synthesizes those two concerns.
    Once Thetis reluctantly arrives and gets the message she relays it to Achilles who instantly agrees. Iris goes to tell Priam the deal. Priam sets out after arguing with his wife and insulting his sons. Hermes comes at Zeus’ request to help Priam get to Achilles’ hut, disguised as a Myrmidon with an elaborate story. He reveals who he really is once Priam arrives in Achilles’ camp and then leaves. Priam supplicates Achilles. They develop a metaphor of the murderer of but also of Achilles as a stand-in for Priam’s sons, especially Hector. Priam invites Achilles to see him as his own father, whom he will never see again. Achilles takes the ransom and loads Hector’s body on the bier out of Priam’s sight. They feast and admire one another. Priam goes out and sleeps until Hermes reminds him where he is and they leave with Hector’s body. Then the gods are out of the picture entirely, except for the occasional mention. Death and mourning is singularly human, not divine.

Motherwell explains that all painters have a certain psychological type that predisposes them to a particular kind of painting and different historical periods are more amenable to different types of painters. He quite admires Miró and says European artists are trying to imitate more primitive modes of art, expressing adult emotions with child-like techniques. This technique is called “free association” in the language of the Freudians and “psychic automatism” in the lingo of the Surrealists. He states this is opposed to the naturalistic Renaissance style, though figuration can still appear in a conceptual, childlike manner, as in Figure Before Blackness.
“Breaking away from accepted conventions in both technique and subject matter, the [Abstract Expressionists] made monumentally scaled works that stood as reflections of their individual psyches—and in doing so, attempted to tap into universal inner sources.”#
“Motherwell and the other artists of the New York School saw automatism as a means for generating a form that would directly embody their existential struggle for self-definition.”#
On first encountering Robert Motherwell’s 1960 oil on canvas piece entitled Figure Before Blackness, a yellow ochre swath covers white and black from top to bottom, filling about three-eighths of the canvas. The wavy, diagonal right side of this swath lines up with the canvas’s center-vertical, though the bottom meanders over. Motherwell’s color choices have symbolic meaning: yellow ochre symbolizes the earth, white symbolizes life, and black, death. He considered white and black the “protagonists”# in many of his paintings. He chooses yellow ochre for the “middle tone”# because he likes warm paintings. 
A straight line horizontally divides a lower whiteness from an upper blackness, a little below halfway up the canvas. This upper blackness does not extend to the top of the canvas but rather resembles hills or the profile of a mountain range. White seems painted over the black in order to create this effect. He paints in steps, yet “all over”# the canvas on each step. The lower half on either side of the ochre swath is all white except for an orange horizontal bar in the lower right, hovering just above the bottom. A long, thin, darker-ochre brush-stroke jumps from this bar like a fish from water, reminiscent of gestural Abstract Expressionists such as Jackson Pollock.
Upon close inspection there seem to be many layers of paint. He starts a painting “somewhat by chance,”# which might explain the heavy layering. The lighting on the piece in the Spencer Museum of Art is somewhat uneven, requiring extra effort to make out certain details. In the top left corner a black line veers off the hills and black flecks flit around. In the top right a few black flecks also flit but most noticeably one large, orange, vertical fleck connects the eye from the white, painted-over valley to the orange bar in the whiteness below. Scratches on the black show white paint underneath. Submerged under the ochre swath is a black ovular shape, like a head, and below that an upside-down triangle. A downward-oriented, hand-like off-shoot from the left side of the ochre swath bring these two shapes together to suggest a figure in faint outline. Thus yellow ochre—a figure from Eden—seems to be the protagonist of Figure Before Blackness.
	In “A Conversation at Lunch,” Motherwell discusses his methods and aims.  For him, feeling supersedes knowledge and planning. To paint well requires being fully alive and especially sensitive to the canvas. “A picture is a collaboration between artist and canvas.”# Motherwell worked with the canvas on the floor, to avoid dripping and have a birds-eye perspective. He finishes a canvas standing, right side up. His large canvas “sharpens the sense of space,”# whereas easel-size he considers too traditional, with no effect on how the viewer reacts to the work. Looking at the piece from a distance, or looking at the picture of the piece on the Spencer Museum of Art’s website, where the canvas becomes less-than-easel-size, the painting suggests a plane of life with the void beyond the horizon and a human bridge between.
	Like other Abstract Expressionists, Motherwell tries to find the universal through individualistic practice. Motherwell does not “exploit accidents”# but rather has a casual, existentialist attitude towards painting: if there is no plan for any specific outcome nothing can be an accident. He combines the gestural and color field schools. His title hints at the hidden shapes suggesting a figure. These shapes are imprecise and spontaneous. The figurative and gestural elements of the painting are subdued compared with the immediately arresting use of color fields.
The first monograph I have read completely for my project is called The Road to Eleusis: Unveiling the Secret of the Mysteries by R. Gordon Wasson, Albert Hofmann, and Carl A. P. Ruck. Their basic thesis is that the Eleusinian Mysteries had their consistent profound effect upon participants thanks to the action of a tryptamine derived from a rust-like fungus which grew/grows on the grain grown on the Rarian Plain. Their evidence derives from Wasson's investigation of shamanism, Hofmann's exploration of the naturally occuring tryptamines, and Ruck's disquisition on the evidence from Antiquity. Wasson does not contribute much beyond enthusiasm for the subject, bringing the other two together in collaboration. Hofmann's evidence defies question beyond what curiosity and doubt lies in the mind of the reader. Ruck cites many classical sources which would need to be checked in order to vet his conclusions, which at least follow from how he has presented the evidence. Ruck’s first essay, “Solving the Eleusinian Mystery” does not cite sources, though an accompanying essay that restates the same case includes extensive footnotes. His argument is the most pertinant to my purpose, and runs as follows: 
All ancient accounts of the mystery at Eleusis indicate that something was seen in the initiation hall. Every year and on schedule participants experienced this effect. There are no indications that any sort of stage drama was performed. The descriptions, in their vague and transcendental terms, along with noted physical side-effects like nausea and vertigo, are consistent with the effects of drugs of the hallucinogen class. We know that a specific potion was drunk, a mixture of water, barley, and pennyroyal mint. Also, there are reports of scandal resulting from aristocrats celebrating the Mystery at symposium-like dinner parties. Our main source material regarding the specifics of this ritual is the Hymn to Demeter, which makes mention of this kykeon, or mixed drink. 
The Hymn begins with Demeter’s daughter Persephone picking flowers with the daughters of Ocean. She picks a narcissus, a flower word etymologically related to narcotic, and Hades, lord of the underworld, snatches her. “The marital abduction or seizure of maidens while gathering flowers is, moreover, a common theme in Greek myths and Plato records a rationalized version of such stories in which the companion of the seized maiden is named Pharmaceia or, as the name means, the ‘use of drugs’” (38). Ruck believes the Lesser Mystery corresponds to this first part of the Hymn and was a Dionysian celebration involving notoriously strong Greek wine, which had to be diluted because it included other various psychotropic (“mind-turning”) herbs. The participant took the role of Persephone and metaphorically died.
To understand the Greater Mystery, which centers on Persephone’s redemption, Ruck continues through the Hymn to Demeter. The Hymn continues as Demeter makes her way to Eleusis, disguising herself as an aged nurse. She is offered wine which she refuses, but instead requests the kykeon, the aforementioned mixture of water, barley and pennyroyal. After trying to make the Eleusinian prince immortal but running afoul of his mother, she reveals herself and has a temple built in her honor. She stays there, grieving for her lost daughter, allowing nothing to grow upon the earth. This upsets the order of the cosmos: men must steward the earth and offer sacrifices of her bounty to the Olympian deities in the sky, else they die. So Zeus solemnly compromises and allows Persephone to return to be with her mother for part of the year, so that the earth will again bear fruit. But since Persephone has eaten a pomengranate seed while with Hades, she must return there for part of the year.
There’s more in this book and in the Hymn to Demeter, elaboration upon which I suppose will wait for a later draft since I’m now well over the suggested word-count.
Your assignment is to write a paper in which you compare and contrast, in terms of form and content, a pair of works.  The works are: 
Donald Judd (American, 1928-1994). Untitled (Stack). 1967
and
Petah Coyne (American, b. 1953). Untitled #751 (Craig's Piece), 1992-1993   


Notes describing their various elements and the interrelationship of those elements in the overall composition. 
Coyne:
ceiling cord (sky umbilical, axis mundi, navel support, head) covered in some sort of farbic
wire in hexagram links, two-dimensional honeycomb shape. mesh, benzene rings?
some wires coated in wax to their ends but others submerged supporting candles, wicks burned
gives a vague impression of a figure, or rather of clothing, like a dress
also looks like a Q-tip, something to be inserted, insectoid, a stalactite, to warm icicle
Hanging, what’s the Craig?
Looks like blossoms, cottony snow; middle bulb and bottom bounce
Judd:
just pretentious
robot vertebra of a robot spinal cord
equidistant to the ground? (a ways) to the ceiling?
science fictional
ten rectangular boxes, top and bottom orange/amber (ampexian?) plexiglass, front/sides/back stainless steel
the way the piece reflects light (go back for a look eh?) suggests a skyscraper, tying the piece further to it’s supporting wall and imposing it upon the viewer, making it pop from the infrastructure
no sacred mystery, just profane
inert, hints of something perhaps inside? a trapped mosquito?
impression of symmetry
bunker bunks, funerary monument, totemic, mushrooms on a tree-trunk
Spine of the gallery


Sources about these two artists in order to understand something of their backgrounds, influences, interests, and accomplishments and the contexts in which these works were made:
Both are Midwest South babies
Coyne:
chandelier, obvs. Boettger “the Versailles-gone-mad works in which chandelier-like forms sport flocks of taxidermied birds or sheaves of candles amid lacy wax-covered branches” 124 on “everything that rises must converge”
Castro sex “Above and Beneath the Skin” humorous, ironic, eclectic layered materials reflecting interests in history metamorphosis mythology body
size and weight contrast with delicate vulnerable appearance
Works cocoon-like, mysterious
Judd:
ribbed phallus, “the blank face of Minimalism may come into focus as the face of capital, the face of authority, the face of the father,” playfully monolithic, segmentation of the father (Chave, 51)
Auto - “three-dimensional work,” “anyway, movements no longer work: also, linear history has unraveled somewhat” (825)
Specific objects more than or other than fine art (via Chave)
Fried: only retained the story about David Smith driving on the unfinished NJ turnpike
See Hopkins’ discussion of Fried to make some sense out of him
Minimalist works contain nothing to exhaust in examining them and so accept imaginative impositions.

In your paper you may wish occasionally to quote directly from the authors you are reading; if you do so, please cite your source.  Be sure to also cite concepts and ideas that you use that are taken from outside sources.

Develop a thesis and give your paper a title that conveys it:
Minimalism is male libido hidden beneath pretension and Petah Coyne flans my o’connor.

Write an opening paragraph that introduces your subject and conveys your thesis:


Describe both works carefully, attending to their materials, imagery, composition, and other salient elements:


Offer an interpretation of the meaning of the works, which should be informed by the information about them you will find on the Spencer website as well as other ideas and information you will glean from your reading as well as from your own consideration of the works:


The larger contexts of the bodies of work of Judd and Coyne, how the Spencer works exemplify relevant methods, influences, and expressive aims of each artist:


Compare and contrast the works in terms of form and content, considering the following questions:  Similar
Both non-representational
Different

Distinctive aesthetic does each employ

The principal meanings each generates are

They engage the issues of  

Out of these questions you should develop a thesis statement that conveys the essence of your overall interpretation.

Be sure to describe, 
interpret, and 
contextualize each work.  
In treating the second work, be sure to compare and contrast it with the first. 
Write a concluding paragraph that restates your thesis and summarizes your findings.  In your conclusion you may, if you wish, also express your judgment of which of these two works you find more successful or engaging; if you do so, be sure to give specific, objective reasons for your opinion, as you will find the critics have done in the assigned articles. 

Please indicate the word count at the end of your paper. 
Native
Multimedia suffuses my memory. Earliest I remember, I was watching National Geographic documentaries. As the oldest child, my parents controlled my media intake with constant worry. My mother stayed home and was never far. We only had the network channels and I was only allowed to watch PBS. NOVA and other shows about nature were my mainstay, which led to my exhausting the local Blockbuster of nature material.
My parents read to me often. One book in particular I memorized before I could read. I had my parents read it to me so often that I knew what happened on each page, word for word. We often went to the library and I always pushed for more and more difficult books, so that I advanced faster than many of my classmates in reading, even though my verbal communication skills lagged behind. 
	I intook typical multimedia too: Disney movies, Barney, dinosaur books, action hero cartoons. A babysitter came over and put on a soap opera, which distressed me enough that she never came back. Still, my parents influence and my struggle to know beyond my supposed ken seemed to be the central conflict throughout my growing up. Parental selectivity of friends from catholic school maintained my ignorance.
	Once I could watch more than PBS I watched Spiderman, X-Men, Batman, and other cartoons. Once at the Lake of the Ozarks I bought a Spiderman comic at a grocery store. After I had read it, my dad got hold of it and told me the language and themes were inappropriate. My parents took ratings seriously: being allowed to buy the PG-13 Jurassic Park at age 12 took some begging.
While I remember conflict most vividly, my parents and I did bond over multimedia. A new collection of Calvin and Hobbes comics accompanied us on each of our summer road trips, which my dad and I would read cover to cover. On these road trips my mom and I would take turns listening to Beach Boys on the Walkman while my dad drove. For my tenth birthday my mom gave me Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band by the Beatles on CD, which was beyond me at the time. I liked the title track and reprise only. At home with Mom I must have watched The Sound of Music a dozen times. Participation in the Roman Catholic mass also defined much of my time with my family. Religious imagery still informs my visual literacy.
	Our multimedia conflict began to become irrelevant as my computer expertise grew. My dad ran a small catalog publishing company and so we had Apple computers in the house since I can remember. At first I only used computers to play games like Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego? and a football simulation. The purchase of a red iMac coincided with ubiquitous AOL discs. With the internet came flirting with public school girls on instant messenger and downloading music on Napster. My parents knew little about computers and even less about the internet. I took over computer maintenance and so had control of the most powerful medium in my household.
	With more control and consciousness came more participation and creation of multimedia. Early in my schooling I drew much, played the Big Bad Wolf in a classroom production of Little Red Riding Hood, and learned to write. I first wrote for fun in a journal I kept for my thoughts around sixth grade. In seventh grade I learned HTML and some Javascript in a class at my future high school. Making sites and acting became my primary modes of self-expression in middle school.
	The first multiple-page website I remember making I called Awesome Autos. I had started to read magazines — ESPN and Motor Trend — and wanted to catalog the fastest and most expensive cars on one site. I never completed Awesome Autos thanks to a growing consciousness of the issues of web design and development. I realized that all the images I collected for the site were copyrighted elsewhere. Also, the consideration of buying a domain tied to a web server to host the files surprised me.
	While the expense of web hosting pales in comparison to buying the latest game console, I realized how contingent on wealth all this media consumption and creation is. I always took for granted the competition among kids to consume media first and most fully. Once my parents finally allowed me to buy a game console, the catch was I had to save money to pay for it, not to mention I could only buy approved games with minimal levels of violence. I worked outside for neighbors and eventually had the cash.
My parents gave into violent games after my dad and I spent a summer watching all of the James Bond films in order, and I was allowed to buy “The World Is Not Enough” for the Playstation. I had played DOOM and similar games at friends’ houses before, without telling my parents. They considered video games a waste of time. I justified my Playstation purchase and MTV, which I had to watch in secret, by creating danceable tunes with MTV’s Music Generator game. I fondly remember my mom and sister dancing in the basement laundry room to a track I put together next door in my dad’s workshop.
Before my freshman year of high school, I wanted to build my own computer from parts purchased on the web. Besides the technical fascination, I wanted a powerful rig on which to play the online first-person shooter Counter-Strike, where you play as a terrorist or counter-terrorist and try kill off the other team or complete an objective. Building your own computer saved money and was not a hard sell on educational grounds. My dad’s dad programmed computers for 48 years at Kansas City Power & Light Company. We got a Dell on my insistence that we needed a PC so I could play computer games. I probably justified my insistence otherwise, though.
In these middle school years I started to enjoy writing and rhetoric. My seventh and eighth grade English teacher, Mrs. Heid, encouraged me to write more. In her class I received the first set of clear writing guidelines and followed them with great success. By the time I was in eighth grade I had such confidence in my writing that my five page final paper for social studies ended up an eighteen page behemoth summary of the Lebanese Civil War. My teacher had not heard of this event when I proposed my topic, and thought I had plagiarized once I turned in the paper because I used words like “incursion.” The vice principal had me turn in the Word document of my paper on a floppy disc and ran it through their new anti-plagiarism software. She exonerated me, I got three points back, and I graduated with the title Mr. Vocabulary.
I got to that point by reading outside of class. I had always gone through phases of obsessive reading. Reading books allowed me to explore adult realms to which I might not have had participatory access. I became interested in the newspaper and Tom Clancy novels around the beginning of middle school. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict, especially. I was reading Clear and Present Danger on a family trip to Michigan between sixth and seventh grade when I lost my appetite one morning thanks to the USA Today front page which showed a bloody child victim of a suicide bomb.
Through the web I learned more, and more quickly. I found out what the Lebanese Civil War was, for example. I found out about the Lord of the Rings trilogy and went to the library to read what the fuss was about. I read blogs like Kottke.org and Slashdot. I found forums, or bulletin boards, answering questions about HTML and computer hardware. Somewhere in all of this Google became my portal to the web and I learned the art of search terms. I remember seeing Osama bin Laden’s Wikipedia page, pre-9/11, while researching terrorist groups. Then watching CNN that day, the image of the second plane hitting seemingly on repeat, I had a revelatory moment when the announcer suggested al Qaeda might have been responsible. One girl had come in late that day, distraught, crying but not allowed to tell us what had happened. She did anyway. Only one of my teachers would admit to us what had happened. Our teachers cancelled our daily newscast, called Channel One — television news for middle-schoolers. That day I had some formative thoughts on atemporality and the efficacy of information access control.
At this point, I enter high school. And my information intake explodes. My memories of specific media become less distinct and meaningful. Of what have I been convinced without multimedia? Speech — pure rhetoric — may have begun to form me but now my sources have grown so that any single form of argument cannot fully convince me of anything. We sense in five ways, and information from one cannot be enough. I cannot believe anything that I myself cannot express. My consciousness holds only what I can communicate. I know, act upon, am much more than of what I am conscious. Much of what I interact with, encounter, and within society am, I cannot say and do not notice. And that someone experiences me one way or another I remain unawares. Unless I hear or read, understand, and then can express.
When I was in elementary school I was known for my temper. I would get in trouble often. Once I realized how I was and how I affected people I could recognize the same traits in others. In multimedia I found a model in the X-Man Wolverine. He could recover from any wound super-fast and never had to correct his self-destructive temper. I am not a mutant like him, though. Eventually, I came to relate to another mutant, Spiderman, in his pining for a pretty friend. What stories we know color our perceptions of our world — how we construct ourselves. And to each new experience we bring our previous methods of perception.
Donald Judd’s Untitled (Stack) and Petah Coyne’s Untitled #751 (Craig's Piece) are currently on display in the 20/21 Gallery of the Spencer Museum of Art. Judd’s work exemplifies minimalism, while Coyne operates in a post-minimalist space. Judd provides the (anti-)spine for the gallery, while Coyne brings an organic heart to the space.
	Coyne’s Untitled hangs from the ceiling by a thick cord covered in fabric. Begun in 1992 and finished in 1993, Coyne composed the piece of hexagonal wire mesh emanating from a thicker, spiraling center cord. Melted wax which supports candles with burnt-down wicks covers this skeleton. There are two distinct bulbs, between which some poking fingers have deposited gum. The piece gives the vague impression of a figure, a dress, a spiderweb-wrapped insect’s thorax, a stalactite, flower blossoms, a honeycomb, a cocoon, and/or snowflakes. A corpse-like mystery enshrouds the thing, which hangs tucked into the gallery space, nestled against an implied corner within the space’s psycho-geography, its name suggesting an autobiographical memento.
  	Judd’s Untitled juts from the wall at the approximate center of the northernmost wall of the gallery, diagonal from Coyne’s piece across the gallery’s open walking space. Rectangular, stainless-steel boxes with top and bottom of orange acrylic glass recur in equidistant increments from the floor to a tenth iteration. Each box measures six inches by twenty seven inches by twenty four inches. The spaces that separate each box are equal to the height of each physical box. The piece seems playfully inert, inviting transitory impositions of referent form. This 1967 Untitled is not quite robotic vertebra, or a science-fictional funerary monument, or bunkered bunks, or a totem, or a representation of mushrooms which grow horizontally from a tree-trunk. The way light plays through the acrylic glass and reflects off the wall suggests a skyscraper. Nothing is trapped inside the amber. There is only a mirrored, serial, hollow symmetry to the impersonal thing.
	On first glance only their births in the southern Midwest unite these two artists. Both their works are non-representational and so convey a sense of mystery. After that their paths diverge. 
Suzaan Boettger would classify Craig’s Piece among Coyne’s “Versailles-gone-mad works in which chandelier-like forms sport flocks of taxidermied birds or sheaves of candles amid lacy wax-covered branches.”# She discusses the pieces which were displayed under the exhibition named “Everything that Rises must Converge,” which is the title of a book by Flannery O’Connor. Both Coyne and O’Conner share a history and fascination with Catholicism. Discussing Coyne’s “Above and Beneath the Skin” exhibition, J.G. Castro characterizes Coyne’s work as humorous and ironic, composed of eclectic, layered materials into forms which reflect interests in “history, metamorphosis, Catholic and classical mythology, and the body.”# The size and weight of her work contrasts with its vulnerable, delicate appearance.#
	Judd’s work does not suggest vulnerability or delicacy but is rather playfully monolithic and minimalist. From a Freudian perspective the piece could be seen as a ribbed or perhaps segmented phallus. Only the orange acrylic glass shows each box’s hollowness and suggests any distinction between interior and exterior. For Anna Chave, “the blank face of Minimalism may come into focus as the face of capital, the face of authority, the face of the father.”# Minimalist works contain nothing to exhaust in examining them and so accept imaginative impositions, retaining none in particular. Judd characterized his own pieces not as sculpture but as “three-dimensional work.” He saw his work as a radical departure from past accomplishments in terms of process, materials, and concept. He used fabricators to construct his work, removing the procedural expressiveness that the Abstract Expressionists held in such high regard. Though critics have included him with the Minimalists, he understood his work to be non-relational and something other than rational, European art.## “Anyway,” he said, “movements no longer work: also, linear history has unraveled somewhat.”#
	Critics such as Clement Greenberg and Michael Fried thought otherwise. Greenberg had insisted that “Nothing could be further from the authentic art of our time than the idea of a rupture of continuity.”# Fried built on this position, saying minimalist, or ‘literalist,’ art works “do not represent, signify, or allude to anything; they are what they are and nothing more.”# He saw them as actors within time, inexhaustibly suggesting duration to the viewer, borrowing an effect from theater. In Judd’s Stack and many other nearly identical works, the repeated forms do little but mark the passage of eye through space and time. Within modernism, such a borrowing, such ‘theatricality,’ goes against Greenberg’s assertion that all mediums had come to confront their essential characteristics, such as Abstract Expressionist painting’s emphasis on the flatness of the picture plane. Judd’s interest in creating “specific objects” also flew in the face of Fried’s idea that good art had to ‘suspend it’s own objecthood.’#
	Artists and critics throwing jargon back and forth at one another tends to confuse. Both seem to agree that these objects are something other than what was previously defined as fine art. Chave’s insight into Minimalism turns the macho posturings of artist and critic into sensible expressions of and alliances with power, the flexing of muscles by two related clans separated by simple entropy. Modernism attempts to unify art and it’s manifestations into a grand and continuous meta-narrative, one movement following another in a dialectic progression. Fried’s anecdote about David Smith driving on the unfinished New Jersey turnpike seems telling. Smith experienced “a reality which had not had any expression in art [...] something mapped out but not socially recognized.”# These so-called minimalists, confronted with the massive impersonality of post-war society’s post-industrial infrastructure, attempted to capture and understand these feelings through their art, and in the process re-imposed the incursive capitalist hegemony on viewers, consciously or unconsciously.
	Judd’s Untitled (Stack) in the Spencer’s 20/21 gallery, encountered head-on, draws attention to the scale of the wall and structure of which it is a part, making the viewer feel small, insignificant, maybe even a bit angry. Coyne’s Untitled #751 (Craig's Piece), however, enlarges the viewer, inviting her into a wealth of baroque detail, comforting and personal. Despite the somewhat impersonal initial title, the parenthetical dedication invites the viewer to wonder who Craig could be and what relationship he might have had to Coyne. This sense of a possible intimate mystery baked into the piece has the effect of welcoming the viewer’s associative additions, in contrast to the distant refusal of Judd’s Untitled to take on anything other than what it immediately is. Still, Coyne’s art object maintains an indefinite nature, not easily explained or characterized, but embodying the ambiguous expressiveness that defines myth.
	Like Judd and predecessor Eva Hesse, Coyne emphasizes the materials she uses in her works. Like Hesse and Judd, she layers her materials. Unlike Judd and like Hesse, she does not eschew biological associations with her work and could be dubbed an ‘eccentric abstractionist.’ Judd lacks much that Coyne allows, though still Coyne’s work avoids any unintended free associative labeling. As rich and complex as her work is, there is a palpable sense of control and intentionality about them. Absent are the unplanned consequences of Abstract Expressionist process.#
	The line “everything that rises must converge” comes from “maverick Catholic theologian Pierre Teilhard de Ohardin, who held that the cosmos is evolving, via growing human self-awareness.”# In a way, Judd’s Stack rises, though whether or not it converges with Coyne’s Craig’s Piece, which has a sort of umbilical cord connecting it to the ceiling, is up for debate. With some imagination both can lead the viewer into the monumental architecture of the Spencer Museum of Art and beyond. Coyne’s piece connects to a murky and solemn upper darkness, while Judd’s leads up a well-lit wall. Neither quite led me to transcendence, but Craig’s Piece affirmed life in its multifarious mess.
Idea here originally was to take documents from my time here at KU and rework/edit them into usable material for my thesis. Thoughts on the gods of Homer, on Antigone, on psychedelia, on Herodotus, on Nietzsche, &c. may be useful, but looking through the rest of my work the idea was probably just a caffeine synthpop.
Introduce the topic and take a stand, briefly summarize the myth, and then move to scholarship, your statement of method, and then your own analysis.

	“...a code cannot be destroyed, only ‘played off’” (Barthes, The Death of the Author)
	
The Eleusinian Mysteries, practiced from approximately [date] BCE to 400 CE, engender many interpretations. Many scholars and artists have attempted to cast light on them. The Mysteries were based on the Hymn to Demeter, a poem of uncertain origin from the sixth century traditionally attributed to Homer but more in the style of Hesiod (Francke). Opinions on what the Hymn implies for cult ritual vary. Generally agreed upon is that there were Lesser and Greater Mysteries celebrated, as well as two other related rituals associated with the cult, one to celebrate threshing and another solely for women. Initiates worshipped a twofold goddess, Demeter and her daughter Persephone. The characteristics and possibilities these goddesses and their rites have embodied in minds throughout the years have shifted, though always they’ve been associated with seasonal renewal. Wasson et. al. have controversially argued that the Greater Mystery, which confronted initiates with a religious vision, involved the administration of an entheogenic substance, similar to what we know as the ergot-derived psychedelic LSD. Regardless of the actual contents of the rites, the Eleusinian Mysteries offered woman-centric ritual in the midst of an increasingly misogynistic society. The Hymn and imitative ritual ties such initiations to the cosmic order.
	A misogynistic society means established social structures and discourses which do not respect women. Violence towards women establishes a hierarchy with women in a subordinate position, a binary relation where men are one and women zero. In Greek households, women lived in separate quarters. Their role was simple: bake and birth babies, attend to textiles, and if of a lower class, tend the fields. They could distinguish themselves with their work, upper-class ladies more so than lower, but they were ultimately defined by the man they lived under. In Greek literature women often have no name other than that of their male master, father or husband. In myth women have three roles (Farber): erotic, nurturing, and mature. Hera (Kerenyi) often is spoken of in terms of being a child or maiden - the Kore in Greek -, a completed women or wife, and a grieving women or crone. Servant women show up from time to time. Free women, Amazons, show up as enemies, regarded with suspicion.
	Kore etymology and meaning.
	[In the Hymn to Demeter, Kore is pimped by her own father, Zeus, to his own brother. The purpose here is not progeny, per se. Kore herself represents a divine maiden. Rather, the purpose is to initiate Kore into womanhood, that she might become Persephone, queen of the dead and wife to Hades. She transitions from a flower child to a bleeding adult. See Bruce Lincoln’s “The Rape of Persephone.”]
	To the Greeks this sort of forced union would not elicit the reprehension with which contemporary Westerners respond. Kore does protest her abduction, and the poem’s author describes her as unwilling multiple times. But this was the way it was and worked. The rest of myth is full of forced unions. The Hymn to Demeter might be unusual in the amount of consideration given to how the women react.
	Women are seen as sacred vessels in our culture and in others as well. Gaia, the earth, held Hades and all the souls of the dead. Jane Ellen Harrison and the Mountain Mother would come in handy here.
	Incidentally in Greek Hades is known as Ploutos, which means wealthy. Also, Pluto, Aidoneus (meaning Unseen), also he’s thought of like Satan or the devil in our parlance. He’s a wealthy older guy who forcibly takes a pretty young thing and comforts her only when she learns she gets to go home, too, by saying she’ll be honored and comfortable and wealthy and venerated and powerful. He’s got dark hair to her light. Sounds familiar.
	But they don’t have any children. Their hands are full with all the souls of the dead, all those flowers Persephone picked before she got her name. Got threshed, stored, ploughed, sown. She’s tied to the underworld by eating a pomegranate. The deal between Zeus above, sky-god, and his brother the unseen Hades, Zeus below, remains honored. He gets his wife and she gets her mother. Almost literally becomes her mother. In the Hymn she does not explicitly become a mother. Pomegranate has known anti-fertility properties. Not to mention, the drink that the fasting, mourning Demeter asks for instead of wine within the Eleusinian palace includes a mint which has abortifacient properties. Wasson et. al. argues convincingly that the vision described by initiates into Demeter’s rites were caused by ergot fungus which grew on the grain sacred to her. This ergot also causes uterine contractions. This brings up the tantalizing speculative possibility that this communal trip involved a mass birthing. 
	
	When Demeter is invoked in drama (Aristophanes) she’s normally associated with women and the wealth of the Athenian state.

Encodes the story of the origin of agriculture.
	In hunter-gatherer societies, women typically gathered. Thus would it not seem to follow that they were the originators of agriculture? And that goddesses would be made of these primordial farmers? 
Consider archeological evidence?

	Summary is all well and good but this would be better as a way to organize the essay. And why is that? What thesis can we advance that would utilize such a structure?
The general story goes that Persephone, who at this point is just referred to as Kore or maiden, is abducted by the god of the underworld to be his bride against her will. Her mother Demeter goes into a furious searching mourning and ends up at Eleusis. There she for a while under the disguise of an old maid takes care of the late-born prince. Her methods freak out the queen and so Demeter is forced to reveal herself. She then demands a temple built and causes a famine. This forces Sky Zeus to tell Underground Zeus to return Persephone to her mother. She has eaten a pomegranate seed in Hades, however, and so must return there for a certain time-span each year. Once Persephone returned she taught the Eleusinians her rites and how to cultivate the land.

What am I arguing? That the Themosphoria in Sicily involved water-birthings? That the Greater Mystery was a mass birthing? Have to find other examples of such a ritual?
Theology? so What?

How much am I simply projecting onto this and what can I actually back up?
Primary source material:
Hymn to Demeter, Aristophanes’ Choral Hymn to Iakchos
IG tablets filtered through Cavanaugh, showing the Eleusinian sanctuary to be a powerful economic force, having loaned 20,000 drachmas to the Athenian state during the Peloponesian war and having stockpiles of building materials on hand besides the cash and grain.

Trace the development of scholarship on the subject, from breathless praise to scornful critique to rediscovery and appropriation
Trace Ancient Secondary source material:
Isocrates - Athens shared the rites and grain with all freely as Demeter taught them
Plutarch - shows fame and calendar of the mysteries
Porphyry - “Honor your parents; honor the gods with grain; do no harm to animals”
Aristotle - “Initiates do not need to understand anything, rather, they undergo an experience”
Sophocles - “Thrice blessed of mortals are those who go to Hades after beholding these rites”
Pindar - “Blessed is he who goes under the earth after seeing these things.”
Scholiast on Plato - two sets of mysteries: lesser in city 1st, greater at Eleusis 2nd
Lactantius - Persephone sought with torches in the night
Dio Chrysostom - describes trippiness of ceremony, initiates danced around by initiators
Clement of Alexandria - those things worshipped being agricultural products
Tertullian - the thing revealed is a phallus
Hippolytus - the thing revealed is an ear of corn
Euripides, Bacchae - “For two things, young man, [275] are first among men: the goddess Demeter—she is the earth, but call her whatever name you wish; she nourishes mortals with dry food; but he who came afterwards, the offspring of Semele, discovered a match to it, the liquid drink of the grape, and introduced it [280] to mortals.”
Persephone invoked by the Chorus of Euripides’ Ion in preparation of a poison: “Daughter of Demeter, goddess of the cross-ways, you who rule over assaults by night [1050] and day, guide this cup full of death against the one my queen sends it to—from the [1055] drops of the earth-born Gorgon, her throat cut, to the one who is grasping at the house of Erechtheus.”
Why would Persephone be in debt to a Muse? Euripides Rhesus: “the daughter of the goddess Demeter, giver of increase, [965] to release his soul; and, debtor as she is to me, show that she honors the friends of Orpheus.”
In 396, “Another Greek writer, Eunapios (circa 346–414), a philosopher and a former hierophant or chief priest of the mysteries at Eleusis, an eyewitness to the works of Alaric, reports that the Gothic barbarian, with the guidance of Christian monks, smashed Eleusis, a sacred polis by the sea, about twenty kilometers north-west of Athens” (Vallianatos 80). “In 396, the year when Alaric smashed Greece, including Eleusis, Emperors Arcadius and Honorius brought the Eleusinian mysteries to an end. Three years later, in 399, the brother emperors, Arcadius and Honorius, decreed that all remaining temples would be destroyed” (82). 
	More from Vallianatos about the decline of Greek paganism and the violence of Christians towards Greeks, especially that story of monks tearing that female scholar limb from limb.
Consideration of the Mysteries went underground for a while until the rediscovery of Greek culture in the Renaissance. However, artists initially focused on the Olympians. George Chapman, the first to translate Homer and the hymns associated with him into English, leaves out the Hymn to Demeter entirely.
ORDER BETTER
In The Road to Eleusis: Unveiling the Secret of the Mysteries, R. Gordon Wasson, Albert Hofmann, and Carl A. P. Ruck argue that the Eleusinian Mysteries had their consistent profound effect upon participants thanks to the action of a tryptamine derived from a rust-like fungus which grew/grows on the grain in the fields around Eleusis, the Rarian Plain. Their evidence derives from Wasson's investigation of shamanism, Hofmann's exploration of the naturally occuring tryptamines, and Ruck's disquisition on evidence from Antiquity. Wasson does not contribute much beyond enthusiasm for the subject, bringing the other two together in collaboration [Inaccurate: bring in Antonio Ceraso here]. Hofmann's evidence defies question, beyond what curiosity and doubt lies in the mind of the reader. Ruck cites many classical sources which would need to be checked in order to vet his conclusions, which at least follow from how he has presented the evidence. Ruck’s first essay, “Solving the Eleusinian Mystery” does not cite sources, though an accompanying essay that restates the same case includes extensive footnotes. His argument is the most pertinant to my purpose, and runs as follows: 
All ancient accounts of the mystery at Eleusis indicate that something was seen in the initiation hall. Every year and on schedule participants experienced this effect. There are no indications that any sort of stage drama was performed. The descriptions, in their vague and transcendental terms, along with noted physical side-effects like nausea and vertigo, are consistent with the effects of drugs of this hallucinogen class. We know that a specific potion was drunk, a mixture of water, barley, and pennyroyal mint [Here might be a good point to drop some hint about the effects of ergot derivatives on the uterus]. Also, there are reports of scandal resulting from aristocrats celebrating the Mystery at symposium-like dinner parties. Our main source material regarding the specifics of this ritual is the Hymn to Demeter, which makes mention of this kykeon, or mixed drink. 

SUMMARY BEFORE THIS SO AS TO NOT CONFUSE
The Hymn to Demeter begins with Demeter’s daughter Persephone picking flowers with the daughters of Ocean. She picks a narcissus, a flower with a name etymologically related to the word narcotic. Then Hades, lord of the underworld, snatches her. “The marital abduction or seizure of maidens while gathering flowers is, moreover, a common theme in Greek myths and Plato records a rationalized version of such stories in which the companion of the seized maiden is named Pharmaceia or, as the name means, the ‘use of drugs’” (38). Ruck believes the Lesser Mystery corresponds to this first part of the Hymn and was a Dionysian celebration involving notoriously strong Greek wine, which had to be diluted because it included other various psychotropic (“mind-turning”) herbs. Participants (all of them?) took the role of Persephone and metaphorically died.
To understand the Greater Mystery, which centers on Persephone’s redemption, Ruck continues through the Hymn to Demeter. The Hymn continues as Demeter makes her way to Eleusis, neither stopping not eating, disguised as an aged nurse.
[Interaction with the girls]
She is offered wine, which she refuses, but instead requests kykeon, the aforementioned mixture of water, barley and pennyroyal.
[Takes the job of raising Demophoon]
After trying to make the Eleusinian prince immortal but running afoul of his mother, she reveals herself and has a temple built in her honor. 
[The specifics of her speech to Metaneira have noteworthy implications]
She stays there, grieving for her lost daughter, allowing nothing to grow upon the earth. This upsets the order of the cosmos: men must steward the earth and offer sacrifices of her bounty to the Olympian deities in the sky, else they die. So Zeus solemnly compromises and allows Persephone to return to be with her mother for part of the year, so that the earth will again bear fruit. But since Persephone has eaten a pomegranate seed while with Hades, she must return there for part of the year.
There’s much more in this book and in the Hymn to Demeter, elaboration upon which I suppose will wait for a later draft.

Ceraso: “While Wasson, Hofmann, and Ruck certainly argue that the secret of Eleusis is the fact that hallucinogenic fungi were used to in- duce the experience of the mysteries, this fact has little bearing on the character of the actual experience” (238). “Like the term entheogen itself, The Road to Eleusis stakes out a zone between mythos and logos, working to provide guidelines for operat- ing in and enduring the flash—the flickering torchlight and ventriloquistic effects—that constitute that zone. The writing practice that builds the knowledge network here enters into resonance with the two forms of secrecy: the movement and connection of information and its excess on the one side, and the itinerant practice of the mys- tery, with its rich capacity for reproduction, its incommunicable blockages, and its information scarcity on the other” (241). “In gesturing toward another set of practices, Wasson forces us to confront this paradox and provides us with a set of rhetorical resources to begin hacking it” (243). Think open source software communities.

Farber’s article begins with a nod to Freud’s interpretation of myth as the organization into narrative of unconscious infantile sexual wishes. I think this definition is reductive but provocative enough to be useful. Farber elaborates onto the Oedipal complex, which she says leads to segments of the desired mother appearing disguised as characters in myth. She identifies three segments which recur in Greek myth: the erotic, the nurturing, and the mature. I immediately note the pattern of groups of three women appearing in myth like the Furies, the Graces, the Fates, tripart Hecate (who appears in the Hymn to Demeter), Shakespeare’s Weird sisters, ad nauseam. These segments are not mutually exclusive, although Farber notes that only Penelope of Homer’s Odyssey can be described in terms of all three roles. She charts the goddesses into four categories: erotic, erotic nurturing, mature nurturing, and erotic mature. Erotic characters peak within myth as the sexual partners of gods or aristocrats and then disappear from their story either through death or some calamity. Farber identifies Persephone as an exception among erotic characters in that, after her abduction and rape by Hades, she returns to Olympus and in a sense regains her virginity. Persephone is further unique in myth in that she has a close relationship with a nurturing mother, while most other deities are raised by surrogates or have little need to be raised at all. The Hymn to Demeter includes a scene which validates the nurse-child relationship, as well. Farber characterizes Demeter as a mature nurturing goddess, which is remarkable for a goddess of agricultural production. Within the myth she is initially characterized by her grain-colored hair, but after Persephone’s abduction she disguises herself as a crone-like nurse-maid. She then goes to Eleusis and becomes employed to care for the prince Demophoon. The boy thrives under her care, which involves ambrosia, sweet breath, and purifying him in fire each night in secret. When the queen Metaneira walks in on this she shrieks and Demeter has to reveal her identity. She then berates Metaneira for preventing her son’s immortality in terms which suggest that nurses can care for babies better than their mothers. After this incident Demeter promises to teach the Eleusinians her rites, the Mysteries, and they build her a temple into which she withdraws. Without her nurturing influence men and the gods on Olympus suffer a year of barren earth. This forces Zeus’ hand and he orders Hades to allow Persephone to return to Demeter. 
I will leave off here, leaving out the specifics of Persephone’s return from the underworld, in which the consumption of pomegranate seeds play a decisive role.

I am going to attempt to integrate two different articles and my readings of primary source material in translation to explain a particularly compelling and troublingly persistent hypothesis that I have developed upon reading and jotting notes. First I have the rest of the Hymn to summarize. In both Walter F. Otto’s “The Meaning of the Eleusinian Mysteries” and Bruce Lincoln’s “The Rape of Persephone” the author notes that simply explaining the Mysteries as a seasonal agrarian rebirth narrative reminiscent of Isis and Osiris is simplistic and inaccurate. The sacred grain of the agricultural society does not come forth until after Demeter reveals her mysteries and teaches agriculture to man in response to the return of Persephone, and the barren earth which forces Persephone’s return is a direct result of Demeter’s wrath well after Persephone has been abducted to Hades, so Persephone cannot be a personification of the grain. The reason that Persephone must return, however, is that she has eaten pomegranate seed from Hades, the word for which in the hymn is kokkos, which also has the connotation of the testicle and the male seed. Lincoln’s main argument, convincingly made, is that the Mysteries were in a part a female initiation ritual comprised of the reenactment of the rape of Persephone by Hades. The evidence that the Lesser Eleusinian Mystery, held in the early spring, was a drunken orgy is discomforting but easier to support than refute. More disturbing perhaps, although following logically and somewhat sensationally and spectacularly, taking Ruck’s assertion that the Greater Mystery involved imbibing labor-enducing ergot mixed with the abortifacient pennyroyal, is that any pregnancy resulting from the Lesser Mystery would be induced to birth during the Greater Mystery about two months shy of nine later. There is no mention or hint of pregnancy or birthing that I have caught in the source material, though, so I feel somewhat perverse in this conjecture. Although, the notion of a trip in a cave surrounded by chanting hierophants among birthing mothers is hard to forget. Such an event would seem to create quite an impression and amaze to fanatic belief. That’s my somewhat gross hypothesis, a take on the subject I don’t think anyone else has entertained. “The immense life-giving power of the earth mother was impressed immediately upon the souls of the initiates,” Apollodorus says of the Greater Mystery. I definitely will need to better organize and present the evidence if I actually want to argue this. In Otto’s words, “I do not believe that this explanation will find many friends.” Our current culture, distantly descended from the Greeks, with a certain segment known as ‘Greek’ in our collegiate setting, at times mirrors this “rape culture,” to borrow a term from gender studies. Treading carefully is imperative. I apologize for the rough presentation of these ideas here.

“Thus the sacrifice of barley to Demeter in the autumn would seem to have been not so much a thank-offering as a bribe judiciously administered to her at the very moment of all the year when her services were most urgently wanted” (Frazer 50).

Need more information on the Proerosia (“Before the ploughing”) and the Themosphoria (women’s rite around sowing time).

Frazer considers Demeter to symbolize the threshed grain, Kore the white barley used for planting and Persephone to be the ripe grain. Sky-Zeus takes Demeter, while “Zeus below” takes Persephone. The sowing of the grain seems to symbolize the vanishing of Persephone to the underworld (Kerenyi). The mythologem is closer to the natural process than to the artificial process of agriculture, he says (re-examine this). Tripartite symbols abound; “3 dominates the cthonic cults of antiquity.” Female goddesses commonly had three forms: child, wife, and crone. In the Hymn we see all these forms through the various goddesses which appear. A connection between Persephone and Medusa presents itself also, through her name which translates to “she killed by Perseus” and the sickle which beheaded the famous Gorgon and threshes grain.

Kerenyi (see English notebook) notes that Gaia aids Hades in his abduction in the Hymn, belying any simplistic equation between Demeter and the Earth Mother. To her, “neither seduction nor death is the least bit tragic or even dramatic” (136). “Rhea is calm and calming, Demeter passionate.” “The fluidity of the original mythological states presupposes a oneness with the world, a perfect acceptance of all its aspects.” “It is not a question of divine childhood but of divine motherhood” (137). “Men, too, entered into the figure of Demeter and became one with the goddess.” In Arcadian Pheneos, the priest wore a Gorgonesque Demeter Kidaria mask. (J.E.H. and Kerenyi disagree about who corresponds to Persephone, Iackhos or Dionysus, respectively). Sequence of events: union of the Kore with Hades, mourning and search, sacred marriage of the mourning and searching goddess to Zeus, recovery (142). ‘“The great goddess has borne a sacred: Brimo has borne Brimos!” - Hippolytus (143).’ Pindar: “Happy he who, having witnessed such things, goes under the earth: he knows life’s end and knows its Zeus-given beginning” (145). Pupils also called ‘kore’ (147). “The Brimos was only one of the Eleusinian symbols, only one unfolding of the budlike idea that envisaged the continuity of life in the unity of maiden, mother, and child, a being that dies, gives birth, and comes to life again” (148). ‘looking up to heaven they cried “let it rain” and looking down to the earth they cried “make fruitful”’ (148). “It was essentially a wordless initiation that led to a knowledge which it was neither necessary nor possible to clothe in words” (152). “Every grain of wheat and every maiden contains, as it were, all its descendents and all her descendents” - “the abyss of the nucleus” - “the infinity of supra-individual organic life” (153). 

Marguerite Rigoglioso argues that Sicily is the ancient source of the Demeter/Persephone cult. In central Sicily, near the town of Enna, lies Lake Pergusa, known as the “lake of blood.” A reddening, sulpherous bacteria periodically changes the color of the entire lake. Also, twin peaks stand nearby. Ovid locates the rape of Persephone at Lake Pergusa in his Metamorphoses. Near this lake waterbirds gather, which are a common epiphany of the goddess. Cranes and swans accompany the multitudinous flowering plants around Lake Pergusa. Pergusa can be seen as a microcosm, a sacred cauldron, a mini-ocean, a symbolic uterus, the living manifestation of Persephone, the menstruating goddess, “the goddess of the bloody maw.” Persephone and Hades bear no children, and the pomegranate which ties Peresphone to Hades is another menstrual image, the skin of pomegranates having long-known anti-fertility effects.

Margot K. Louis considers mythography throughout the nineteenth century, focusing on poetry and scholarship. She glosses: “Frazer’s innovation is to reframe a whole tradition of cthonic mythology in terms of primal anxieties about food and sex.” She concludes: “The Mysteries were often used to represent what the author thinks religion ought to be, the Olympians to show what it ought not” (check this quote it’s rough). Her paper follows how Modernist literature tried to move through Decadent pessimism to a celebration of life through a reconsideration of the mystery religions. Notables include Wordsworth, Ruskin, Mackay, Muller, Grote, Swinburne, Hugo, Pater, Nietzsche, and Jane Ellen Harrison. She notes a shift from focus on emanence to immanence and the effect of food politics. I trust her because she acknowledges “the primacy of metaphor” and religion as a form of poetry.

TODO: Ceraso (response to Wasson), Jane Ellen Harrison
The Spencer Museum of Art’s Print Room holds a print of Nikki S. Lee’s photograph The Hip Hop Project (2) from 2001. In the photo Korean-born Nikki strikes a pose with two black men on an urban sidewalk. Her work succeeds in revealing archetypal American identities to be performed and artificial, based in common ways of acting and consuming.
	The silver-dye bleach print measures 40 x 59.7 centimeters. In the bottom right corner a date-stamp reads “6 17 ‘01.” The shot focuses on the figures from the waist up. The two men dress in a recognizably hip-hop fashion. The man on the photographer’s right wears a clean, white, unbuttoned collared shirt over a white undershirt and sports a silver cross necklace and large reflective sunglasses. The man on the photographer’s left dons a do-rag, a dark blue collared shirt with only the second to the top button fastened, a large belt buckle, and holds his right elbow to reveal the ‘ice’ on his left wrist. Both men lean to their right in casual, neutral poses.
Nikki, on the other hand, strikes a more confrontational pose. She seems to almost frown, pushing out her chest with her hands on her hips. Her skin is tan and her face appears darker and shinier than the rest of her, suggesting make-up or bronzer. Her eyebrows appear plucked and redrawn. Her hair lines her scalp in the tight ‘cornrows’ and falls over her shoulders in braids. She wears a tee shirt bearing a head of a bald eagle in front of an American flag. She also sports ‘bling’ in the form of a hollow silver cross outline necklace on a long chain.
	This photograph has an uncanny effect on the viewer. The film quality and date-stamp suggests an everyday snapshot but the composition is symmetrical and the figures are staggered, making it feel staged, like a publicity shot. The date-stamp in the bottom corner rules out this possibility, suggesting instead a fan photograph. Nikki could be some hip, new, unheard-of hip-hop starlet, posing outside a venue at dusk with fellow rappers. But there is something affected and tense about her pose compared to her companions. Compared to Nikki’s set jaw the man on her right looks relaxed and almost bemused. Her shirt also does not quite mesh with her surroundings. Such an overt display of patriotism seems out of place within the context of transnational hip-hop culture, whose politically transgressive beginnings still discourage any kind of nationalist sentiment, favoring instead specific region or city loyalties. The eagle shirt would not be a starlet’s choice. At a second glance she looks tough, less wealthy than her companions, more like a groupie or fan herself. A fan would not command such a central and commanding place in a photograph, however. Here the juxtaposition of Nikki’s Korean features, her stereotypically black braids and heavy make-up, and her African-American companions start to inject doubt into the scene’s superficial possibilities. The central figure seems a poseur.
	Indeed, research on Nikki’s oeuvre reveals that she is a “subcultural drag” queen.# “Whereas the anthropologist focuses on rites of passage that establish the bonds of community, Lee’s Projects enact ‘rites of passing’ that raise the question of belonging to a community in the first place.”# “Her images explore the illusory boundaries, shallow artificiality, and transitory nature of culture.”# For her Projects series, Lee picked subcultures she found conceptually interesting; adopted their clothing, hair styles, gestures, mannerisms, speech patterns, and other semiotic markers of identity; and then introduced herself to members of the subculture “as an artist working on a piece.”# During each of her Projects she had friends, subculture members, or random passersby take Polaroid-style snapshots of her. She utilizes a ‘point-and-shoot’ camera instead of a professional device in order to flatten the distance between herself and her subjects. The simple camera does not have the same intimidating or attention-drawing effect that an expensive camera can produce.
	Lee acknowledges being inspired by postmodern critics like Baudrillard and Barthes.# She “engages the perverse logic of simulation,” and gives the example of the date-stamp, explaining: “A good documentation of our simulation, in fact, renders the simulation more true.”# Lee’s work in the simulationist vein becomes clearer in the context of her other Projects, in which she transforms into a tourist, a trailer-park resident, a young urban professional, a Puerto Rican, a lesbian, and a Japanese hipster, among others. The completeness of her transformation evokes the Barthesian concept of “death of the author,” radically depersonalizing Lee, whose entire artistry seems to lie in the mimicry of others and subjugation of her individual ego. Though Nikki’s authorial hand chooses outfits and mannerisms to match her subjects, her works engender varied interpretations based on the associations the viewer brings to each accumulation of signifiers.
In this respect her work shows a strong affinity to that of Cindy Sherman, whose reproductions of non-existent film stills see her transformed from photograph to photograph into female film noir archetypes. Both masquerade through clothing, make-up, and props, but Sherman’s consciously composed photos focus more on femininity, while Lee explores many different “subject positions, social constructions, and visual categories” within spontaneous interactions.# 
Louis Kaplan also notes the similarity of her work to that of Adrian Piper. Both deal “in performing race and ethnicity”# and “what it means to be both a part of (sharing) and apart from (splitting) community.”# In The Hip Hop Project, Nikki invites the viewer “to pose questions about the racial or racist categories” associated with the musical genre.# The frontal orientation of the photograph draws the viewer’s eye to the similarities and differences in facial structure and skin tone that indicate race. Lee’s attempt at camouflage contrasts her with Piper’s confrontational posture most explicit in Self Portrait Exaggerating my Negroid Features. In this work she projects stereotypical traits of blackness onto her own face in a discomforting parody. In The Hip Hop and other Projects Lee also confronts the viewer with “parodic projection” onto her own body, causing the viewer to question what seems normal or natural. Unlike Piper’s seriousness, though, Lee’s identity play can cause laughter by exposing assumed norms to be derived from other imprecise copies.# For example, the collared shirts the men wear, one white and one blue, resemble the workaday shirts of Americans across lines of class, gender, and other divisions, though the manner in which they wear them and how that interacts with the rest of their ensemble falls within the subtly subversive hip-hop norm. The subculture has appropriated a signifier from the dominant culture, but modified its use to signify something besides what is typically signified.
The white collar symbolizes the W.A.S.P., capitalist, American way, and through this lens Nikki’s eagle tee shirt takes on an irony totally foreign to popular hip-hop. The bald eagle symbolizes American power, flying above the rest of the world, swooping down when hungry or threatened. The white head and black body could symbolize an economy built on black slavery and run by white masters, a structure echoed in the overwhelmingly white milieu of Wall Street that Nikki interrogates through her Yuppie Project. Hip-hop culture, though considered marginal, has improved the status of African-Americans through promoting entrepreneurship and creating powerful figures within the American culture industry. Thoroughly commodified and performed, hip-hop maintains a subversive tone through its attitude of aggressive, ‘rugged individualism’ and ‘guerrilla capitalism.’ Its transgressive political underpinnings have been recoded into the capitalist system through the decadence of the ‘bling-bling’ aesthetic and lack of concern for political correctness and sentiment, glorying in a ‘nihilistic bravado.’ Blackness becomes located outside the body in a hybrid culture. Like the bald eagle, hip-hop flies over geographical barriers, appropriating the language of European oppressors and uprooting the participant from historical meta-narratives. Thus freed, the individual, regardless of twentieth century ethnic associations, can eschew violent notions of racial specificity to seek their fortune in the marketplace. Nikki’s choice of this shirt suggests her own artistic methodology, the artifice of commodity self-hood, and the power of one of America’s latest cultural exports. Her assertive pose confronts the rampant objectification of women in materialistic hip-hop culture. In Derek Conrad Murray’s words, “Lee has elevated being a culture vulture to an art form by becoming the flaneur par excellence.”
A Knotty Yarn
	Zachary Mason changes the Odyssey myth for his own ends in his novel The Lost Books of the Odyssey. Mason writes short vignette’s that re-imagine various scenes and plot-lines from Homer’s stories about the Trojan war. Homer’s poem provides the canonical text which Mason then gleefully subverts and plays off. In his Lost Books Odysseus remains a wily, silver-tongued master of lies but he also becomes a sorcerer, vizier, bard, a young man and old over the course of The Lost Books. As in Homer’s Odyssey his close relationship with Athena figures prominently throughout. Other central characters also have their lines recast, notably Penelope, Achilles, Menelaus, Polyphemos, Agamemnon, Scylla, Circe, Calypso, Helen, the Sirens, Eumaos, and even other mythological figures absent from Homer’s epic. Mason projects the famous stories through a contemporary lens, but styles his prose in a way that sounds at times ancient and foreign, though always fresh and concise. His additions interpret and rework the myths in revelatory and subtly clever ways. Mason has a gift for exploring the hints of Homeric subtext, recombining narrative elements and remolding the malleable casts of characters.
 One of his most played upon motifs echoes Homer’s major preoccupation, the homecoming of Odysseus to Penelope. In Homer’s Odyssey Odysseus enters his house in secret in disguise and concocts an elaborate plan with the help of Eumaos the swineherd, his son Telemachus, and his protecting goddess Pallas Athena. There is no vignette in Mason’s work that includes any such collaboration upon homecoming. Instead, in Mason’s first ‘book,’ Odysseus comes home to find Penelope given up on him, remarried to a soft old man. This book ends with Odysseus coming to the revelatory conclusion that this must be the illusion of a vengeful god and flees to find his real home. Odysseus arrives home disguised in another book to find Penelope ruling over a harem of fawning, beguiled slave boys, reminding him of an origin story for her of Mason’s invention: that she came from a wild clan of werewolves. He announces to her that the next day Odysseus will arrive and then he shows up in finery to a clean palace and subservient wife, though he worries about his son because he shares her wild green eyes. In yet another re-imagining Penelope plays cousin to Helen, to be married off at the same time and in love with the pigheaded Menelaus. Odysseus must have Helen, whom he realizes no man describes in the same way. Hence, he convinces Penelope to deceive Menelaus into thinking that she is Helen and they elope, Odysseus and Helen following suit. Penelope also appears in one book as a ghost haunting Odysseus’ house and in another as a shade in the underworld. The Delphic oracle had given her the ‘no man’ name Odysseus gave the Cyclops, driving her to poison herself and the suitors. In a few other vignette’s where she plays a minor role Penelope appears like her character in Homer’s Odyssey: faithful, cautious, loving, demure, and crafty. Mason leaves out and does not elaborate on Penelope’s famous tests, except in reference to the specially-wrought bed when Odysseus proves the integrity of his message to his wild, green-eyed wolf-queen.
Odysseus’ other loyal female companion, the divine Pallas Athena, charge and advisor throughout the war, also morphs throughout The Lost Books, though she maintains her attributes of wisdom in battle and council. In the most memorable scene she reaches out to Odysseus in an offer of marriage, an offer Odysseus finds so absurd he laughs, nearly incurring her wrath. She abandons him afterward and he credits his misfortunes to her absence. In another vignette Odysseus drowns at sea and Athena lovingly gives him a choice of afterlife. Odysseus chooses to wander forever, victorious in adventure always at the last minute with her help. Mason here footnotes that Athena does not talk with Odysseus on his travels between Troy and Ithaca. Most amusingly Athena deceives Odysseus for his benefit in two books, one in which she shows him Penelope’s funeral shroud for Laertes under the pretense that it was the weave of fate in order to give him confidence for his upcoming battle with the suitors. In the last vignette, Mason has Athena hide a simulacrum of Achilles’ shield which had been lost at sea for Odysseus to find in the hills outside Troy on a visit to the sacked city which has now become a tourist trap. Perhaps Athena’s most fascinating incarnation is under the guise of Quickness, a primordial virgin goddess at war with Death. Quickness gives Helen to Menelaus and Death, also known as Paris, comes to steal her away from him, compelling those who vied for Helen’s hand in Quickness’s temple to lay siege to Death’s city. In the end Odysseus kills Helen and Quickness kills Death, only for Menelaus to install himself on Death’s throne. As Odysseus wanders a dead world, Quickness appears to him one last time, naked and beaming, leaving him to wonder. Contrast these final encounters with Athena to the canonical ending of Homer’s Odyssey, in which Athena checks the battle-lust of the line of Laertes and in the guise of Mentor reconciles King Odysseus with his subjects. Mason caps a short piece in which Odysseus is dying of hypothermia with a poetic description of the goddess:
Water flowing through pipes, pouring into unlit reservoirs there to eddy in silence. Runes of ephemeral fire. A book of many pages written in inks that vanish and reappear. A twilight forest haunted by beasts, watchful and inquisitive. Steadfast of heroes. An onion, an ocean, a palimpsest, a staccato machine of oiled iron gears. These are among the metaphors with which I describe myself, like a hand trying to grasp itself by reaching into a mirror. (Mason 181-2).
These poetics seem equally applicable to the character of Odysseus or even Mason’s own book.
Even in the books focusing on the perspective of Achilles and the cyclops Polyphemos the reader gets a fresh yet true sense of Odysseus the character. When Odysseus the sorcerer discovers that Achilles has died, he and a co-conspirator fashion a golem from clay and slave-girl blood. Like the canonical Achilles it is invulnerable and bloodthirsty, and when Odysseus tires of the war he puts mud over the word he carved in Achilles’ forehead to give him life and leaves him outside the Trojan walls. The rain begins to wash away the mud and Mason implies Achilles in a cart to be the Trojan horse. In the only vignette from Achilles perspective he has vanquished the King of the Cosmos only to take his place and wish to have never been born, thanks of course to Odysseus’ recommendations as Agamemnon’s vizier in order to get him out of their kingdom and satisfy his desire for a match at arms. In yet another trick in another vignette Odysseus promises Achilles a rousing secret battle in a tomb only to leave him there for days to contemplate the mortality he lacks. Achilles then renounces war and disappears to promote peace. The vignette narrated by Polyphemos provokes thought even more so. Mason treats the cyclops character compassionately and Odysseus and his men as terrible marauding thieves. Mason takes the cyclops’ bard name, which translates roughly to ‘very famous,’ and gives it literal meaning. Polyphemos cannot but think about and recount the stories Odysseus told him before his blinding, and he tells them to his visitors, inventing ever more trying binds for his begrudged hero. So, Mason makes the brutal cannibal of Homer’s Odyssey into one of the primary sources of Homer’s story.
The most notable differences between Homer’s Odyssey and Mason’s Lost Books concern the title character Odysseus and how the stories of his deeds evolve over their tellings. This is reflected in the Polyphemos episode but also in many focusing solely on Odysseus. Even in Homer’s Odyssey Odysseus lies masterfully and probably embellishes the stories he tells the Phaiakians, which comprise the ‘traveler’s tales’ portion of the epic. In one vignette Odysseus plays along with Phaiakian king Alcinous’ belief that he may be the storyteller whose tales determine life in Phaiakia. In another Odysseus ends the war by assassinating Helen and then travels as a singing bard making up stories glorifying himself. Once he returns to Ithaca he becomes a generous patron of those who recite his poems perfectly. He even gets a word in on his own destiny when he washes up on the island where the Fates discuss his future. Eavesdropping, he understands they talk about him and interjects in mimic of their voice that Calypso, his next waylay, be kind and beautiful. Twice also Odysseus reads his own story, one written by the gods before the Trojan war as its model and another written by a forgotten self, which he reunderstands and then burns to complete his catharsis and becoming a new person.
Though Homer’s Odyssey boasts a complex narrative structure and an unreliable narrator, Mason goes beyond Homer in literary trickery, at least to the eye of a present-day reader. Odysseus in one tightly woven tale meets a double, a doppelganger born seemingly at random into the body of a Trojan. In the vignette in which Odysseus reads the Homeric epics before even arriving at Troy he meets Helen during the sack and she recounts having been through it all before with uncanny foreknowledge and they run off together. The vignette began with Odysseus nearly drowning on his way home only to be dragged upon Menelaus’ ship and treated as though he had just jumped off his own on the way to Ilium. Mason’s Odysseus is often cowardly, unwilling to fight, critical of the sons of Atreus, much like an exaggeration of Homer’s Odysseus, or rather the jealous opinions of some fellow warriors. Indeed, Mason shows Odysseus in Hell, walking an endless tightrope like a shaman with an oar over his shoulders for balance, a truly harrowing punishment. Mason does deftly imbue the faceless monsters of Homer’s epic with human characteristics, making Scylla a miserable young woman caught by snares hidden in the slaughtered cattle of the sun on Odysseus’ ship. The Sirens receive specific physical description and become clever, playful, and generous in conferring wisdom. Perhaps Mason’s cleverest bits have Homer reading asemic writing and wondering “If I can’t put into words is it real?” and Theseus’ triumph over the Minotaur becoming a labyrinth of half-hearted nostalgia that leads him to Hell and Ariadne to become Calypso (Mason 176).
Writing about Mason’s Lost Books without gushing over plot summary of his inventive appropriations is difficult. The author’s bio inside the book says that he is a computer scientist, and his gift for pattern, structure, abstraction and iteration hide the reader in magnificent narrative folds. He footnotes certain references in his books to details readers of Homer should already know, seemingly a strange decision. Interestingly he does note that stories about a race of cyclops probably arose in order to explain the existence of mastodon skulls, which have a singular round concavity where the eyes should be and great tusks. Like those ancient storytellers Mason takes an ancient artifact—the yarns of the Odyssey—and uses it to reflect the concerns of the present knot in the braid of time.

The Eleusinian Mysteries, practiced from the depths of Antiquity to 400 CE, engender varied interpretations. They were practiced at Eleusis, a sacred city by the sea, about twenty kilometers north-west of Athens. Any person, whether slave or free, as long as they spoke Greek and were not guilty of murder, could undergo initiation. The Mysteries have inspired many scholars and artists to write about them. They have their origin story in the Hymn to Demeter, a poem of uncertain author from the sixth century traditionally attributed to Homer but more in the style of Hesiod. The Hymn was rediscovered in 1777 from a manuscript found buried in a farmyard in Moscow. Opinions on what the Hymn implies for cult ritual vary. There were Lesser and Greater Mysteries celebrated, as well as two other related rituals associated with the cult, the Proerosia to celebrate threshing and the Themosphoria solely for women. Initiates worshipped a twofold goddess, Demeter and her daughter Persephone. The characteristics and possibilities these goddesses and their rites have embodied throughout the years have shifted, though they have long been associated with seasonal renewal by scholars such as James Frazer. Wasson et al. have controversially argued that the Greater Mystery, which confronted initiates with a religious vision, involved the administration of an entheogenic substance, similar to the psychedelic drug derived from grain fungus which is known as LSD. Wasson and his collaborators coined the term entheogen, which from the Greek parts ‘in,’ ‘god,’ and ‘become’ make ‘god becoming within.’ Additionally psychedelic comes from the Greek ‘soul’ and ‘reveal,’ making ‘soul manifesting.’
Though the actual contents of the rites remain unknown, what evidence exists has provided scholars fertile ground for study and speculation. Scholars such as Jane Ellen Harrison and Bruce Lincoln argue that the Eleusinian Mysteries offered woman-centric ritual in the midst of an increasingly misogynistic society. The Hymn and associated ritual tied such initiations to the cosmic order. The Hymn and the Mysteries celebrated woman’s origination of agriculture through its fruits. I will argue that the Hymn traces the psychological journey from trauma to recovery.
        The first text to address the Mysteries is the Hymn to Demeter, which seems to have been written by an initiate wanting to give the rituals a divine origin story. The Hymn to Demeter begins with Demeter’s daughter and the daughters of Ocean picking flowers alone in a meadow. The Earth grows a narcissus, a flower of awe-inspiring beauty, by the will of Zeus so that Hades, host of many, can trap the girl. She falls for the bait and the earth opens up for Hades and his horse-led chariot to snatch her away, she unwilling and lamenting. She cries out to Zeus her father, though he is accomplice to Hades, and only Hecate daughter of Persaeus and Helios son of Hyperion hear her. She hopes to see the beauty of the world again and makes the earth echo with her lament, and her mother hears her. She searches for nine days by torchlight, cloaked in black and fasting, finding out nothing about her daughter. Finally on the tenth day she meets Hecate, who has also heard the cries and empathizes. They go to Helios, the sun-god who sees all, and he tells them what has happened. Zeus has given her daughter to Hades, “no unfitting husband,” he says, and she should not lament this but be glad. He then continues on his way across the sky, and Demeter flies into an even more terrible grief, angry at her brother Zeus.
         The Hymn continues as Demeter makes her way to Eleusis, neither stopping not eating, disguised as an aged nurse. She sits outside the walls in the shade of an olive tree by the well at which the local maidens draw water. The daughters of King Celeus, son of Eleusis, find her there and welcome her, asking her who she is. She gives them the name Doso. She says she was captured by pirates and escaped to avoid being sold into slavery. She suggests then that she would make an excellent nurse-maid. Callidice, most beautiful of the daughters, responds in sympathy and receptively tells her of the powerful men who rule the city and their wives who would hire her because of her godlike form. Callidice then requests that Doso nurse her own own baby brother, saying she would be greatly rewarded. She agrees and the girls go and get their mother’s assent. Then they return in joy to bring the still-grieving and -disguised Demeter into their home.
        Passing over the threshold Demeter fills the doorway with a divine radiance, and Queen Metaneira is amazed. Demeter refuses to sit on a fine couch but stands silently until the servant Iambe prepares a chair for her. Sitting she continues in her silent grief until Iambe makes her laugh with ribald jests. Metaneira then offers her wine, which she refuses, but instead requests kykeon, a mixture of water, barley and pennyroyal mint. The Hymn says that she took the kykeon to ‘observe the sacarment,’ and there follows a lacuna in the text.
        The text resumes with Metaneira breaking a silence to praise Demeter, saying her eyes ‘show majesty.’ She echoes her daughter’s sentiments about accepting burdens from the gods and then offers her the enviable position of royal nurse to the ‘late-born, unexpected, and much-prayed-for’ prince. Demeter accepts the job, promising to keep him safe from magic and poisons. She takes Demophon, whose name can be translated as ‘people killer,’ and rears him in a most unusual way. No food or breast-milk does she give him, but she breathes on him and anoints him with ambrosia, the food of the gods, by day, and at night she held him in the fire like a torch in secret. This method leads to astonishing and godlike growth. Continued this method would have led to immortality, but one night Metaneira spies her son in the fire and performs a dramatic grief. Demeter takes him out of the fire, sets him on the ground (some say she throws him, the Greek is unclear), and begins to scold Metaneira. She echoes Homer’s Zeus in bemoaning mortal ignorance. She tells Metaneira that though Demophon must still die he will be honored for having been reared by her, though he will spend his days in war. She then reveals who she is, demands a temple be built for her, and promises to teach the Eleusinians her rites. Then she throws off her disguise and throws Metaneira into shock, filling the room with light.
        Hearing Demophon’s cries his sisters come and pick him up, revive the fire, and tend to Metaneira. The baby continues to cry and they fearfully try to appease the goddess. When morning comes they tell king Celeus what Demeter has demanded and he orders it done. Demophon continues to grow like a god and the temple is finished. Demeter then retreats to the temple and mourns her lost daughter there, apart from men and gods. That year the earth becomes barren, though the cattle plowed and white barley fell into the furrows. This upsets the order of the cosmos: men must steward the earth and offer sacrifices of her bounty to the Olympian deities, else they die. This forced fast of men and the gods attracts the notice of Zeus, who after thinking it over sends Iris, the golden-winged messenger goddess associated with the rainbow, to run to Eleusis and with winged words invite Demeter to come home to Olympus. She refuses. A parade of gods visit, bringing gifts, imploring her, but she refuses to return to Olympus or allow anything to grow until she reunites with her daughter.  
        So, Zeus solemnly compromises and allows Persephone to return to be with her mother for part of the year, so that the earth will again bear fruit. He sends Hermes, the messenger god who brings souls to the underworld, down to bring Demeter’s daughter back from the gloom. He plunges into the depths of the earth and finds her unwillingly sitting on a couch with Hades, longing for her mother. Hermes refers to Demeter’s daughter as Persephone for the first time since the introductory sentence of the Hymn, a name which can be translated as ‘death-bearer.’ Having delivered Zeus’ message about the situation above, Hades obeys. He is characterized by his dark hair and grim smile. He encourages Persephone, telling her that as his wife she will be a powerful queen. Persephone is overjoyed, though she does not realize that the pomegranate seed she has eaten in the underworld binds her to return.
        Hades hitches his horses to Hermes’ chariot and Hermes and Persephone fly away through the elements to Demeter’s temple at Eleusis. They arrive and mother and daughter run to greet each other in joyous reunion. Demeter asks Persephone if she has tasted food in the underworld, for if she has she will have to dwell there for a third of the year, to return when the flowers bloom to the astonishment of all. Then on request Persephone recounts her harrowing adventure, including how, once Hermes came to order her return, Hades tricked her into eating pomegranate seed, forcing her to swallow it against her will. She compares her original companions to flowers and lists a veritable who’s who of female deities. She describes the narcissus which sealed her doom as being like a crocus and joyful to pluck. After this mother and daughter spend the day in mutual affection. Hecate arrives and hugs Persephone many times, and the author notes that from that time on she was minister and companion to Persephone.
        Zeus then sends their mother Rhea to Demeter to finalize Persephone’s marriage deal and accompanying seasonal schedule. Demeter then restores fertility to the land. Rhea then proposes to bring them back to Olympus, with the offer of multitudinous gifts. Demeter agrees, but first she teaches her rites to the Eleusinian noblemen, “awful mysteries which are impossible to transgress or to pry into or to divulge, for deep awe of the gods checks the voice.” Then they return to Olympus, sending the wealth-giver Ploutos, another name for Hades or possibly his son, to the mortal men whom they favor.
REVIEW OF SCHOLARSHIP
        After the Hymn to Demeter, writing related to the Eleusinian Mysteries develops from breathless praise in Greek Antiquity to scornful critique by the end of the Roman era. After Christians put a violent end to the Mysteries their consideration went underground, only hinted at by those educated in Roman poetry. After the rediscovery of the Hymn to Demeter in 1777 scholarship sees a revival in consideration of the Mysteries and an appropriation in art, especially poetry. In the last century feminists and scholars associated with the counter-culture have studied the Hymn and Mysteries.
        Early Greek scholars unanimously affirmed the value of the Mysteries.  Isocrates asserts that Athens shared the rites and grain with all as freely as Demeter taught them, implying that Athenians were responsible for spreading agriculture. Plutarch’s account of a Roman emperor’s eagerness for initiation gives the proper months for the performance of the Mysteries and emphasizes their fame and standing. “The immense life-giving power of the earth mother was impressed immediately upon the souls of the initiates,” Apollodorus says of the Greater Mystery. Porphyry states three Eleusinian commandments: “Honor your parents; honor the gods with grain; do no harm to animals.” Aristotle gives a clue to the nature of the Mysteries: “Initiates do not need to understand anything, rather, they undergo an experience.” Sophocles provides teleological incentive for initiation: “Thrice blessed of mortals are those who go to Hades after beholding these rites;” Pindar reiterates: “Happy he who, having witnessed such things, goes under the earth: he knows life’s end and knows its Zeus-given beginning.” A mention of Demeter in drama reinforces the high status of the Mysteries among the Greeks. In the Bacchae of Euripides, the wise prophet Teiresias says “For two things, young man, are first among men: the goddess Demeter—she is the earth, but call her whatever name you wish; she nourishes mortals with dry food; but he who came afterwards, the offspring of Semele, discovered a match to it, the liquid drink of the grape, and introduced it to mortals.” The offspring of Semele is the wine-god Dionysos. Often correlated with Persephone, having been born of and being close to a northern earth-mother goddess, Dionysos does not enter the Olympian pantheon until historically late, and then as a young Zeus, his son. He too has a rebirth, after being torn to pieces by his own drunken worshippers.
        Another mention in Euripides, this time by a Muse in his Rhesus, shows the roles of Demeter and Persephone within the Greek pantheon: “so earnest a prayer will I address to the bride of the nether world, the daughter of the goddess Demeter, giver of increase, to release his soul.” When Demeter is otherwise invoked in drama, in Aristophanes for example, she’s normally associated with women and the wealth of the Athenian state. The work of Maureen Cavanaugh shows that the Eleusinian sanctuary was a powerful economic force, having loaned 20,000 drachmas to the Athenian state during the Peloponesian war and having stockpiles of building materials on hand besides the cash and grain. The tablets indicate that around 2200 people were initiated into the Mysteries in 407/8 based on the amount of money taken in and the fee amount required of the initiates.
        Aristophanes’ Choral Hymn to Iakchos adds a celebratory note to the ancient material on the Mysteries. The Hymn appears among a raucous play full of sharp barbs, yet maintains a respectful and playful tone. Initiates in the underworld make up the chorus, who sing of their happiness among the gloom. Besides invoking Demeter, the hymn addresses Iakchos, the personification of the initiates’ cry of enthusiasm. They sing of themselves performing a sacred dance, holding blazing torches to light an all-night initiation, playing in a field of flowers as at the beginning of the Hymn to Demeter, uttering jests and witticisms, nipples peaking through burst seams.
        Later Greek and Roman scholars shed more light on the content of the rites themselves, though by the end of the Roman era become critical. A Scholiast on Plato reveals that there were two sets of Mysteries, confirming Plutarch. Initiates had to enter into the ‘Lesser,’ held in Athens, before they could participate in the ‘Greater’ Mystery at Eleusis. He continues:
These were celebrated in honor of Deo and Kore, because Plouton carried off Kore, and Zeus slept with Deo. Many base things were done in them, and these words were spoken on the part of those being initiated: “I have eaten from the drum, I have drunk from the cymbal, I have carried the offering-dish, I have gone down into the bridal chamber.”
I would attribute these words to the Lesser Mystery, which seems to have been a Dionysian re-enactment of the beginning of the Hymn to Demeter. The ritual words here only hint at what they might have meant to the initiates.
Lactantius relates that initiates sought Persephone with torches in the night: “When she has been found the whole rite ends with expressions of joy and brandishing of torches.” Dio Chrysostom describes the initiates danced around by initiators, initiates who “would see many mystical sights, and hear many mystical voices. Darkness and light would appear to him in alteration, and thousands of other things would happen.” This passage would seem to support the claim of Wasson et al. that the initiates suffered a drug-induced vision.
On the specifics of the ritual actions taken by the initiators, Church fathers Clement of Alexandria, Tertullian, and Hippolytus have revealed much, though as with all our ancient evidence their accounts should be taken skeptically. Clement says “The sacred formula of the Eleusinian mysteries is: ‘I have fasted, I drunk the kykeon, I have taken from the chest, I have done my task and placed in the basket and from the basket into the chest.’” This formula compares to the Scholiast’s in that there are four parts and each part seems to refer to some ritual action taken by the initiates. They seem to refer to the Lesser and Greater Mysteries, respectively. Clement goes on to disparage the “sanctities,” those things in the baskets and chests as being a seemingly random assortment of profanities: sweets, cakes, salt-lumps, serpents, pomegranates, figs, fennel, ivy, and poppies. All of these items were sacred as products of the earth, gifts or symbols of the agricultural goddess or Dionysos.
Tertullian criticizes what he perceives to be an over-hyped build-up to the thing revealed in the Mysteries, which he says is a phallus. In this very passage Tertullian leads on the reader, heaping on extra descriptive phrases to make his point. Both he and Hippolytus use the word epoptai to refer to the initiates, which roughly translates to ‘those who have seen.’ The epoptai see the epoptikon, which Hippolytus disagrees is an ear of grain. He says that “The ear of grain is for the Athenians the great initiatory light-bringer from that which is unformed.” Here he seems to indicate the connection between agriculture and the emergence from a chaotic form of life. He also adds another sentence of ritual incantation to the evidence, saying that in the light of a huge fire the hierophant cries aloud, “The Lady Brimo has brought forth a holy son, Brimos.” There is no explicit mention of a birth in the Hymn to Demeter, but the references to female fertility are clear enough. The Ploutos mentioned at the end of the Hymn, however, could be a son of Persephone and Hades.
        These Mysteries fell from cultural grace in late Antique decadence under the tide of Christianity. Not only did Church fathers militate against Greek paganism through the written word, but the Roman military and Christian monks used physical violence in destroying temples and killing Greeks for practicing their religion. “In 396, the year when Alaric smashed Greece, including Eleusis, Emperors Arcadius and Honorius brought the Eleusinian mysteries to an end. Three years later, in 399, the brother emperors, Arcadius and Honorius, decreed that all remaining temples would be destroyed.” “Another Greek writer, Eunapios (circa 346–414), a philosopher and a former hierophant or chief priest of the mysteries at Eleusis, an eyewitness to the works of Alaric, reports that the Gothic barbarian, with the guidance of Christian monks, smashed Eleusis.” Violence against Greek culture was not limited to traditional religious practice in Greece: “In their theological frenzy, the black-robed monks murdered Hypatia (circa 370-415), the beautiful and brilliant Platonic philosopher and mathematician, in Alexandria. Sokrates (circa 380-439), a lawyer and an ecclesiastical historian, was a contemporary of Hypatia. He says that the monks ‘waylaid her returning home. They dragged her from her carriage, took her to the church called Kaisareon, where they completely stripped her naked, and then murdered her with tiles. After tearing her body to pieces, they took her mangled limbs to a place called Kinaron, where they burnt them.’” Under such brutal and merciless pressure, Greek culture left Europe to the Dark Ages.
        Consideration of the Mysteries went underground until the rediscovery of Greek culture in the Renaissance. At first, however, artists focused their attention on the Olympians. George Chapman, the first to translate Homer and the hymns associated with him into English, left out the lost Hymn to Demeter. Concurrently, Shakespeare in The Tempest makes references which suggest familiarity with the contents of the Mysteries. On bestowing his daughter Miranda to Ferdinand, Prospero summons a vision for them involving the messenger Iris, Demeter Romanized as Ceres, “most bounteous lady,” and Juno, the Roman equivalent of Hera and the goddess of marriage. In this curious play-within-a-play the couple receives the blessings of the deities, Ceres bestowing earthly riches. After a brief interruption of an expression of wonder by Ferdinand, Iris invites nymphs “to celebrate A contract of true love.” Next she invites “sunburned sicklemen, of August weary” to join the nymphs in their dancing. Towards the end of their dance Prospero remembers a plot against him by his servant Caliban and some stranded mariners and abruptly calls off the revels. In his conciliatory speech to the bewildered couple appear his most famous lines of the play: “We are such stuff As dreams are made on, and our little life Is rounded with a sleep.” Writing referring to this myth again disappears until the Romantic poets.
Margot K. Louis considers mythography throughout the nineteenth century, when we first see widespread focus on the Mysteries in poetry and scholarship thanks to the rediscovery of the Hymn to Demeter. Louis acknowledges “the primacy of metaphor” and religion as a form of poetry. She concludes: “Throughout this period, we have seen the Mysteries are often used to represent what the author thinks religion ought to be, the Olympian gods to show what it ought not to be.” Her paper follows how Modernist literature tried to move through Decadent pessimism to a celebration of life through a reconsideration of the mystery religions. Notables include Wordsworth, Ruskin, Tennyson, Mackay, Swinburne, Hugo, Pater, Nietzsche, and Jane Ellen Harrison. She notes a shift from focus on eminent deities to immanent ones, reflecting the developing humanism of the era. The food politics of the Hymn to Demeter gave inspiration to the poets rejection of transcendent deities, a rejection which scholars then followed. 
Louis glosses James Frazer, and end of the century mythographer, whose monumental Golden Bough addresses comparative religion: “Frazer’s innovation is to reframe a whole tradition of cthonic mythology in terms of primal anxieties about food and sex.” By cthonic she means with respect to the earth, as cthonos means earth or ground in Greek. Frazer advocates the agricultural allegory interpretation of the myth, comparing Demeter and Persephone to the Egyptian Isis and Osiris. Frazer considers the Eleusinian goddess threefold: Demeter to symbolize the threshed grain, Kore the white barley used for planting and Persephone the ripe grain. Tripartite symbols abound; “3 dominates the cthonic cults of antiquity.” Female goddesses commonly had three forms: child, wife, and crone. In the Hymn we see all these forms through the various goddesses. The sowing of the grain seems to symbolize the vanishing of Persephone to the underworld. “Thus the sacrifice of barley to Demeter in the autumn would seem to have been not so much a thank-offering as a bribe judiciously administered to her at the very moment of all the year when her services were most urgently wanted.” The mythologem is closer to the natural process than to the artificial process of agriculture, reminding farmers of the cycle of life on which their art is based. Frazer makes a connection between Persephone and Medusa finally, through translating Persephone’s name as “she killed by Perseus” and noting that the sickle with which he beheaded the famous Gorgon also threshes grain.
In both Walter F. Otto’s “The Meaning of the Eleusinian Mysteries” and Bruce Lincoln’s “The Rape of Persephone” the author argues that explaining the Mysteries as a seasonal agrarian rebirth narrative reminiscent of Egyptian Isis and Osiris is simplistic and inaccurate. They claim the sacred grain of the agricultural society does not come forth until after Demeter reveals her Mysteries and teaches agriculture to man in response to the return of Persephone. However, the Hymn to Demeter states that when Demeter had made the earth barren cattle dragged plows across the earth to no avail, suggesting that agricultural technology already existed. The barren earth which forces Persephone’s return is a direct result of Demeter’s wrath well after flower-picking Persephone has been abducted to Hades, so Persephone cannot be a strict personification of the grain.
Margot Louis found inspiration for her article in Jane Ellen Harrison’s treatment the myth of Persephone to the inclusion of poetry on the subject, notably Ancient, Shakespearean, and English Romantic. Harrison herself translates parts of the Hymn in the Romantic style:
She culled the flowers along the mead, she and the daughters fair
Deep-girdled of Okeanos, roses and crocus there;
Pale violets, flags and hyacinths, narcissus set a snare
Of earth by Zeus’ decree that he, to whose House all men fare,
Might lure the maid of flower-like face, and have his will of her.
Harrison first establishes the idea of the primordial Earth Mother, ‘lady of the wild things,’ supreme goddess of primitive humanity. Harrison translates Demeter to mean ‘grain-mother.’ Demeter follows the Earth-Mother logically in that once agriculture established itself the need for a distinguished deity of grain arose. Though ploughing and reaping became men’s work, the deity took the form of a woman because while men hunted women gathered, raised children, and first had the leisure to sow and tend crops. Harrison also sets up the opposition between the Olympian and Cthonic deities, different in their chronological development but also in their emphasis. Later under the reign of the Olympians the Earth Mother divides into various goddesses, after Hesiod’s Zeus mocks women in the creation of Pandora, a patriarchal story of man making subordinate and snaring woman. In the Odyssey, Homer only mentions Persephone to connect her with the Gorgon, the Mother’s terrible aspect. The Athenians referred to the dead as ‘Demeter’s people,’ as she takes back the dead into her womb. The gorgoneion, a gorgon-mask, played a central role in ritual and drama, presumably in the Mysteries also, often symbolizing a vengeful spirit. Harrison maintains that the Cthonic Mysteries hold more deep and mystical religious value than the Homeric Olympians, who are merely amplified reflections of humanity. The Cthonic deities in their more variable forms tie the worshippers to nature and the savage fear from whence religion grew.
Károly Kerényi was a disciple of Carl Jung who used the Demeter/Kore myth for his own psychoanalytic ends. He notes that in the Hymn to Demeter the earth goddess Gaia aids Hades in his abduction, belying any simplistic equation between Demeter and the Earth Mother. To Gaia, “neither seduction nor death is the least bit tragic or even dramatic.” He notes the difference in disposition between the Titan mother of Zeus and Demeter, Rhea, and Demeter herself: “Rhea is calm and calming, Demeter passionate.” Rhea is closer to Harrison’s primordial Earth Mother and Zeus, aloof in their age and power. Jane Ellen Harrison and Kerényi disagree about who corresponds to Persephone, Iackhos or Dionysus, respectively. “Men, too, entered into the figure of Demeter and became one with the goddess.” In Arcadian Pheneos, the priest wore a Gorgonesque Demeter Kidaria mask. The Eleusinian mystery “is not a question of divine childhood but of divine motherhood.” Kerényi outlines the sequence of events in the myth and ritual: union of the Kore with Hades, mourning and search, sacred marriage of the mourning and searching goddess to Zeus, and then recovery. The initiates invoked the sacred union between sky and earth: ‘looking up to heaven they cried “let it rain” and looking down to the earth they cried “make fruitful.”’ “The fluidity of the original mythological states presupposes a oneness with the world, a perfect acceptance of all its aspects.” “It was essentially a wordless initiation that led to a knowledge which it was neither necessary nor possible to clothe in words.” However, Kerényi tries: “Every grain of wheat and every maiden contains, as it were, all its descendants and all her descendants”—“the abyss of the nucleus”—“the infinity of supra-individual organic life.” The names Brimo and Brimos revealed by Hippolytus mean ‘angry,’ ‘terrifying,’ or ‘furious,’ tying the rites back to Harrison’s sense that primal fear forms the base of cthonic religion and adding the final mystical touch to the story. Kerényi elaborates: “The Brimos was only one of the Eleusinian symbols, only one unfolding of the budlike idea that envisaged the continuity of life in the unity of maiden, mother, and child, a being that dies, gives birth, and comes to life again.” 
        With a nod to Freud’s interpretation of myth as the organization into narrative of unconscious infantile sexual wishes, Ada Farber begins her article “Segmentation of the Mother: Women in Greek Myth.” Freud’s definition is reductive but provocative enough to be useful. Farber elaborates onto the Oedipal complex, which she says leads to segments of the desired mother appearing disguised as characters in myth. She identifies three segments which recur in Greek myth: the erotic, the nurturing, and the mature. Note the pattern of groups of three women appearing in myth like the Furies, the Graces, the Fates, tripartite Hecate (who appears in the Hymn to Demeter), Shakespeare’s Weird sisters, ad nauseam. These segments are not mutually exclusive. She charts the goddesses into four categories: erotic, erotic nurturing, mature nurturing, and erotic mature. Farber notes that only Penelope of Homer’s Odyssey can be described in terms of all three roles. Erotic characters act within myth as the sexual partners of gods or aristocrats and then disappear from their story either through death or some calamity.
Farber identifies Persephone as an exception among erotic characters in that, after her abduction and rape by Hades, she returns to Olympus and in a sense regains her virginity. Persephone is further unique in myth in that she has a close relationship with a nurturing mother, while most other deities are raised by surrogates or have little need to be raised at all. The Hymn to Demeter includes a scene which validates the nurse-child relationship. Farber characterizes Demeter as a mature nurturing goddess without “any contamination by the erotic,” which she calls remarkable for a goddess of agricultural production. Within the myth she is initially characterized by her grain-colored hair, but after Persephone’s abduction she disguises herself as a crone-like nurse-maid. She then goes to Eleusis and becomes employed to care for the prince Demophon. The boy thrives under her care, which involves ambrosia, sweet breath, and purifying him in fire each night in secret. When the queen Metaneira walks in on this she shrieks and Demeter reveals her identity. She then berates Metaneira for preventing her son’s immortality in terms which suggest that nurses can care for babies better than their mothers.
The reason that Persephone must return to Hades each year, however, is that on her first visit she has eaten pomegranate seed, the word for which in the Hymn is kokkos, which also has the connotation of the testicle and the male seed. Lincoln’s main argument, convincingly made, is that the Mysteries were in a part a female initiation ritual comprised of the reenactment of the rape of Persephone by Hades. Evidence suggests that the Lesser Eleusinian Mystery, held in the early spring, was a drunken orgy. More disturbing perhaps, taking the assertion from Wasson et al.’s The Road to Eleusis that the Greater Mystery involved imbibing ergot mixed with penny-royal, both of which induce uterine contractions, is that any pregnancy resulting from the Lesser Mystery would be induced to birth during the Greater Mystery about two months shy of nine later. A trip in a cave surrounded by chanting hierophants among birthing mothers would seem to create quite an impression and amaze to fanatic belief.
Both Lincoln and Wasson’s arguments demand more careful inspection. Lincoln’s central thesis is that the Mysteries involved female initiation in imitation of Persephone’s rape by Hades. He first notes his debt to the French scholar Jeanmaire for the idea. Then he notes the common interpretation of the myth as an allegory of the seasons and grain, but says this is flawed. The myth has it’s heart in the bond between mother and daughter, creator and created. Kore, by which Persephone is initially referred, means a female youth of initiatory age. For women in Greek society, the ultimate step of initiation consisted of being married off to a man chosen by her father. The union with Hades is therefore acceptable within Olympian society, though the manner in which it is done upsets Demeter. However, Hades is not a mate but rather has the role of initiating his niece, of transforming her from a girl into a woman.
Kore’s absence cannot correspond with the winter because Hades abducts her when flowers are in bloom, so the trip to the underworld must have some other facets of meaning. He takes her to the underworld, a murky place which mirrors other vague realms which initiates visit between states— a liminal zone. In male-centered, misogynistic societies delforation by rape is a common rite of passage for women. Demophon’s unsuccessful initiation by Demeter into immortality contrasts with Kore’s. Kore, unnamed maiden daughter of Demeter, receives her name Persephone only once Hermes comes to bring her back from the underworld. Her initiation becomes an event of cosmic importance - once she has been restored to her social place by her mother’s side vegetation returns and Demeter teaches men her rites. Persephone’s journey sees the cosmos remade through her sexualization, death and rebirth. Her myth’s structure follows a three part schema for rites of passage: separation, liminality, and reintegration. Her individual experience has cosmic importance.
Jane Ellen Harrison and Bruce Lincoln also influenced Marguerite Rigoglioso, who argues that Sicily is the ancient source of the Demeter/Persephone cult. In central Sicily, near the town of Enna, lies Lake Pergusa, known as the “lake of blood.” A reddening, sulphurous bacteria periodically changes the color of the entire lake. Also, twin peaks stand nearby. Ovid locates the rape of Persephone at Lake Pergusa in his Metamorphoses. Near this lake waterbirds gather, which are a common epiphany of the goddess. Cranes and swans accompany the multitudinous flowering plants around Lake Pergusa. Rigoglioso sees Pergusa as a microcosm, a sacred cauldron, a mini-ocean, a symbolic uterus, the living manifestation of Persephone, the menstruating goddess, “the goddess of the bloody maw.” Pindar refers to “Demeter of the red feet.” Persephone and Hades bear no children, and the pomegranate which ties Peresphone to Hades is another menstrual image, the skin of pomegranates having long-known anti-fertility effects. She concludes that the Mysteries grew from rituals of menstrual seclusion in tribal times, and that as Greek society became more urban the rituals evolved and came to include men. She also agrees that these rituals involved sacred medicines discovered through women’s work with plants.
In The Road to Eleusis: Unveiling the Secret of the Mysteries, R. Gordon Wasson, Albert Hofmann, and Carl A. P. Ruck argue that the Eleusinian Mysteries had their consistent profound effect upon participants thanks to the action of a chemical of the tryptamine family derived from a rust-like fungus which grows and probably grew on the grain in the fields around Eleusis, the Rarian Plain. Their evidence derives from Wasson's investigation of shamanism, Hofmann's exploration of the naturally-occurring tryptamines, and Ruck's disquisition on evidence from Antiquity. Wasson frames the discussion. Hofmann's scientific evidence defies question, beyond what curiosity and doubt lies in the mind of the reader. Ruck cites many classical sources which would need to be checked in order to vet his conclusions, which at least follow from how he has presented the evidence. Ruck’s first essay, “Solving the Eleusinian Mystery” does not cite sources, though an accompanying essay that restates the same case includes extensive footnotes. His argument is the most pertinent to my purpose, and runs as follows:
        Ancient accounts of the mystery at Eleusis indicate that something was seen in the initiation hall. Every year and on schedule participants experienced this effect. There are no indications that an elaborate stage drama was performed. The descriptions, in their mystical and transcendental terms, along with noted physical side-effects like nausea and vertigo, are consistent with the effects of drugs of this hallucinogen class. We know that a specific potion was drunk, a mixture of water, barley, and pennyroyal mint. Also, there are reports of scandal resulting from aristocrats celebrating the Mystery at symposium-like dinner and drinking parties. Our main source material regarding the specifics of this ritual is the Hymn to Demeter, which makes mention of this kykeon, or mixed drink. Pupils of the eye, which expand under the influence of tryptamines, were also called ‘korai,’ the plural of ‘kore.’
         The Hymn to Demeter begins with Demeter’s daughter Persephone picking flowers. She picks a narcissus, a flower with a name etymologically related to the word narcotic. Then Hades, lord of the underworld, snatches her. “The marital abduction or seizure of maidens while gathering flowers is, moreover, a common theme in Greek myths and Plato records a rationalized version of such stories in which the companion of the seized maiden is named Pharmaceia or, as the name means, the ‘use of drugs.’” Ruck argues the Lesser Mystery corresponds to this first part of the Hymn and was a Dionysian celebration involving notoriously strong Greek wine, which had to be diluted because it included other various psychotropic (“mind-turning”) herbs. Participants took the role of Persephone and metaphorically died. To understand the Greater Mystery, which centers on Persephone’s redemption, Ruck continues through the Hymn to Demeter.
        Another example from Euripides supports Persephone’s connection to drugs. The Chorus of Euripides’ Ion invokes Persephone in preparation of a poison: “Daughter of Demeter, goddess of the cross-ways, you who rule over assaults by night and day, guide this cup full of death against the one my queen sends it to—from the drops of the earth-born Gorgon, her throat cut, to the one who is grasping at the house of Erechtheus.”
        Antonio Ceraso says: “While Wasson, Hofmann, and Ruck certainly argue that the secret of Eleusis is the fact that hallucinogenic fungi were used to induce the experience of the Mysteries, this fact has little bearing on the character of the actual experience.” The secrecy surrounding the Mysteries in large part results from the difficulty in satisfactorily describing the tryptamine experience. At higher doses differentiating between hallucination and reality can become difficult, and the state imbues everything perceived with ineffable meaning. “Like the term entheogen itself, The Road to Eleusis stakes out a zone between mythos and logos, working to provide guidelines for operating in and enduring the flash—the flickering torchlight and ventriloquistic effects—that constitute that zone. The writing practice that builds the knowledge network here enters into resonance with the two forms of secrecy: the movement and connection of information and its excess on the one side, and the itinerant practice of the mystery, with its rich capacity for reproduction, its incommunicable blockages, and its information scarcity on the other.” Wasson, Hofmann, and Ruck’s discovery presents a dangerous potential for religio-spiritual upheaval. Already in Brazil religious movements have incorporated the use of tryptamine-based entheogenic Eucharist. That the classic religious experience as described throughout the ages can be catalysed by a chemical has myriad controversial implications. “In gesturing toward another set of practices, Wasson forces us to confront this paradox and provides us with a set of rhetorical resources to begin hacking it.” 
METHODOLOGY AND ARGUMENT
         Both William James and Karl Marx seem to agree that a person’s religion is their general theory of this world. According to James, “‘Religion’ cannot stand for any single principle of essence, but is rather a collective name.” Religious sentiment is associated with fear, dependence, sex, infinity, humanity, but is apart from any one of those things. “The question of definition tends to become a dispute about names.” James divides religion into personal and institutional, and decides that personal religion is the fundamental thing, because institutions grow from the personal religion of their founders. In the case of the Mysteries this would be Demeter, if the Hymn is to be believed, but her cult does not seem so dogmatic as the religions of which James speaks. “The theorizing mind tends always to the over-simplification of its materials. This is the root of all that absolutism and one-sided dogmatism by which both philosophy and religion have been infested.” Religion is defined then as “the feelings, acts, and experiences of individual men in their solitude, as far as they apprehend themselves to stand in relation to whatever they may consider the divine.” This definition lays an excellent foundation, though the emphasis on communal experience in the Mysteries, and James seems to neglect how communal ritual can affect the individual experience for a later lecture.
        On the other hand, Karl Marx says man makes religion, and “the criticism of religion is the prerequisite of all criticism.” He calls it, among other colorful metaphors, the fantastic realization of the human essence, which has no true reality. To give up a condition which requires such illusions is to stand in opposition to the established political order. It is an expression of and protest against real suffering.
        To reiterate the Hymn to Demeter: Persephone, who at first is just referred to as Kore or maiden, is abducted by the god of the underworld to be his bride against her will. Her mother Demeter goes into a furious searching mourning and ends up at Eleusis. There she for a while under the disguise of an old maid takes care of the late-born prince. Her methods scare the queen and so Demeter is forced to reveal herself. She then demands a temple built and causes a famine. This forces Sky Zeus to tell Underground Zeus (Hades) to return Persephone to her mother. She has eaten a pomegranate seed in Hades, however, and so must return there for a certain time-span each year. Once Persephone returned she taught the Eleusinians her rites. These rites provided a women-centric ritual within a misogynistic society.
         A misogynistic society means established social structures and discourses which do not respect women. Violence towards women establishes a hierarchy with women in a subordinate position, a binary relation where men are one and women zero. In Greek households, women lived in separate quarters. Their role was simple: birth babies, cook, attend to textiles, and if of a lower class, tend the fields. They could distinguish themselves with their work, upper-class ladies more so than lower, but they were ultimately defined by the man they lived under. In Greek literature women often have no distinguishing name other than that of their male master, father or husband. In myth women have three roles: erotic, nurturing, and mature. Hera often is spoken of in terms of being a child or maiden— the Kore in Greek—, a completed women or wife, and a grieving women or crone. Servant women show up from time to time. Free women, Amazons, show up as enemies, regarded with suspicion.
        In the Hymn to Demeter, Kore is pimped by her own father, Zeus, to his own brother. The purpose here is not progeny, per se. Kore herself represents a divine maiden. Rather, the purpose is to initiate Kore into womanhood, that she might become Persephone, queen of the dead and wife to Hades. She transitions from flower child to bleeding adult.
        To the Greeks this sort of forced union would not elicit the reprehension with which today’s Westerners respond. Kore does protest her abduction, and the poem’s author describes her as unwilling multiple times. But this was the way it was and worked. The rest of myth is full of forced unions. The Hymn to Demeter might be unusual in the amount of consideration given to how the women react.
        Women are seen as sacred vessels in many cultures. Gaia, the earth, held Hades and all the souls of the dead, and from her sprang all life. This focus puts a disproportionate emphasis on women’s reproductive role and has been bemoaned since Antiquity. In Euripides’ Medea, the title character gives a moving speech on the plight of women:
Of all who have breath and thought, we women are the most wretched creature. First we must buy a husband at an exorbitant price and take him as master of our body. [For this second evil is even more painful than than the first] In this act the stakes of the contest are of extreme importance: whether we take a good husband or a bad one. For divorce is not glorious for women and it is not possible to refuse a husband. And coming into new customs and laws it is necessary she be a prophet, having not learned at home how she should deal with her husband. If we complete our labors well and our husband lives with us, carrying his yoke without compulsion, our life is worthy of imitation. If not, it is better to die. But a man, whenever he is annoyed with the people in his house, going outside abates his vexed heart, turning to some friend or equal in age. But it is necessary for us to live a life involving no danger, within the house, and for them to fight with spears, living dangerously. I would rather thrice stand in the line of battle than once give birth.
Though this indictment comes from a woman of extraordinary circumstances and deeds, the appeal and reason still hold. In the best case scenario husband, with patience, would teach his wife the customs of his house so that she could learn them through imitation. Even better would he learn from her through imitation as well, in much the way that the Eleusinian aristocrats were said to have learned the rites from Demeter.
        Walter Otto and Jane Ellen Harrison assert that the myth encodes the story of the origin of agriculture, though the text of the Hymn does not support this argument. However, based on anthropological evidence with which both were familiar, their argument makes some sense. In hunter-gatherer societies, women typically gathered. Thus it would seem to follow that they were the originators of agriculture and that goddesses would be made of these primordial farmers. The rites which Demeter teaches at the end of the Hymn, however, make no reference to agriculture or grain, and the Mysteries themselves seem great enough of a boon for Demeter to have bestowed.
        To salvage some of the spirit of their argument, however, the Mysteries do seem to act as a unifying force within agricultural societies, which in their complexity far over-shadow more primitive forms of social organization. Way of life changes drastically as people settle down in cities and have to work less to maintain their life. They increase in number, create laws, and start wars in response to the resulting chaos. Demeter seems to hint at this in her speech to Metaneira. Right before she reveals her true name and nature, she says that “the Eleusinian sons will forever wage war and dread strife with one another.” The more wealth multiplies, the more there is to fight over and more need for pacifying social forces such as religion, sporting contests, and drama.
        In Greek Hades is also known as Ploutos, which means wealthy. From this epithet the Roman’s took their name for him, Pluto. The King of the underworld, Zeus below, is also known as Aidoneus, meaning unseen. He’s thought of like Satan or the devil in present-day parlance. The Greeks saw him as a wealthy older guy who forcibly takes a pretty young girl and comforts her only when she learns she gets to go home sometimes by saying she’ll be honored and comfortable and wealthy and venerated and powerful. He’s got dark hair to her light. In her role as the queen of the underworld Greeks more often prayed to her than her husband Hades, to whom Greeks seldom directly referred.
        Together they care for all the souls of the dead, all those flowers Persephone picked before she got her name. She is tied to the underworld by eating a pomegranate. The deal between Zeus above, sky-god, and his brother the unseen Hades, Zeus below, remains honored. He gets his wife and she gets her mother. She almost literally becomes her mother, though in the Hymn she does not explicitly become a mother. Pomegranate has known anti-fertility properties. Also, the drink that the fasting, mourning Demeter asks for instead of wine within the Eleusinian palace includes a mint which has abortifacient properties. Wasson et al. argued convincingly that the vision described by initiates into Demeter’s rites were caused by ergot fungus which grew on the grain sacred to her. This ergot also causes uterine contractions. This brings up the tantalizing speculative possibility that this communal trip involved a mass birthing. Then taking the pronouncement of Brimo birthing Brimos literally, the initiates become one with the goddess through the rites, and the hierophant announces that she has given birth to a divine son. Hence all these mothers and sons and daughters of Eleusis are tied in an incredible and ineffable bond.
The Mysteries seem to have served the purpose of justifying and reinforcing by religious means the shift to an agricultural grain-harvesting mode of life and social organization. After the end of the Mysteries the exact mechanisms used largely remained mysterious and came under witch taboo. Only recently, now with the new secular faith in empiricism, have these mechanisms come to fuller light, though still taboo by law, and for good enough reason. So for the next religio-evolutionary geo-symbiotic step, what do myth and philosophy have to speak to the ritual use of the earth’s children’s poisonous secretions. Marx in his critique of religion relates it to the people’s pain, James’ pragmatic conception of the individual nature of religious experience, and the example of Eleusis suggests that religion can integrate human realities more to allow for than to suppress creative flourishing. Reasons for living and driving passions tend to pale words before their power. To commune around them requires repetition of old, vague, and certainly sometimes silly formulaic speech, action, and even inebriation. The establishment of innovative and meaningful ritual structures must borrow heavily from previous incarnations, for example with the synthesis of Greek and Hebrew religious ideas in Christianity. The forms these rituals take have at their base the technological means to inspire wonder. Besides psychedelic drugs people have used baroque cathedrals, abstract expressionist paintings, and renaissance sculpture to inspire awe, not to mention nails and crosses, nuclear weapons, and stone-throwing mobs.
          Discussing Nietzsche, Foucault talks of violences calcified into structures of power, or dominations. Maybe madnesses calcify too, perhaps into religions. Taken as a whole, Nietzsche’s philosophy presents a sort of irony. Salvador Dali claims that Nietzsche’s pronouncement “God is dead” sparked in him his first doubts about his atheist upbringing. If God died, he was once alive, and if the eternal return is to be taken as more than a psychological test, then it would follow that God would be born, and live, again. What makes a story plot make sense, mean something to someone, a seeing-reading, hearing-listening experiencing-machine. Rhyme, similarity, like— language is calcified metaphor. To make a sound with one’s mouth is a violence on the ear of another, but not ever so strong as against the speaker’s own. Along these lines refer to Friedrich Nietzsche’s “On Truth and Lying in a Non-Moral Sense.” Rhymes enough to be true rings true.
Sources seem a sore scholarly subject. Some say there is nothing new under the sun so cite cite cite. Would not want to say unawares something someone else already said. Now, few retain everything they read. Readers forget or fail to comprehend but reading is like dreaming—a sort of rapid-eye-movement escape from the eat/drink/work/sleep day/night grind. Work adds value, or something like that; right Marx? So if a work just copies or parrots or thoughtlessly disparages the work of someone else there is no value added to the language, the discourse, the shared mastication of out-breaths, scribbles on paper, and letters on screen. Tongue and pluck the air on it’s way out. Pneumatic! One mouth and two ears, that we may hear. “There is only desire and the social, and nothing else.” They talk of madness in the context of societal structure. Eleusinian Mystery— structured, molded, catalysed madness; set upon setting.
        Set and setting is equally important for a positive sexual experience. Alcohol is commonly used and misused to these ends, as well as are other drugs, certain foods, movies, music, anything which one chooses to intake.
        To argue that a rite which probably included ritually performed sex to initiate women is women-centric, a positive space for women, may seem strange. First, it takes the common traumatic experience of rape, painfully arbitrary and often explained away, and puts it into a cosmic context, recognizes and mythologizes it. That even goddesses must endure such ignominy affirms the experience. Sympathy in grief and pain manifests itself in the form of the nurturing mother Demeter and comforting friend Hecate, whose image is the assaulted daughter. After trauma one changes irreversibly. To be used and abused is to become an object, cut off from the ties of culture and human relations, for a time to be treated only as flesh, embodied to the point of extreme isolation and alienation. Recovering a sense of worthwhile self, that one is more than one’s flesh, a subject as well as an object, is difficult and takes time and compassion from others.
        We see Demeter victimized after hearing her daughters cries, searching helplessly for her abducted daughter. This search ends only with Hecate’s arrival and sympathy, and she recommends they seek the all-seeing sun-god Helios. The author of the Hymn leaves out Demeter’s own rape by Zeus, which other versions of the story contain. Demeter and her daughter are two aspects of one goddess, and so to retell that plotline would be redundant, even more so because Zeus and Hades are themselves two sides of the same patriarch.
        Once Demeter and Hecate find Helios, another aspect of sky-god Zeus, they find out that Kore was abducted by Zeus’ underground brother. His response is terse and unsympathetic. He invokes the patriarchal family structure to justify the rape, saying Zeus approved the union and that Hades, Demeter’s brother, is not an unworthy husband but is in fact quite powerful. This detached, consequentialist, rational Olympian view matches the Nietzschean conception of Apollonian thinking and is stereotypically masculine even today. To his credit he does seem to attempt delicacy but quickly continues on his way across the firmament.
        Demeter flies into an even more bitter rage at these revelations. Her daughter was given away without her say or consent. No regard for her feelings were shown and there is no justification given for their separation. This separation mirrors the separation of physical and cultural or spiritual selves that occurs during trauma.
        At this point Hecate disappears, and Demeter transforms herself into an old nurse in her wandering grief. She reaches Eleusis and sits at the maiden’s well, where young girls come to fill their water-jugs for their households. There she meets young princesses who ask her for her story. She fabricates an explanation for her grief and disguise - that she was abducted by pirates and escaped. She receives comforting words about the hard yoke mortals bear, and here it becomes clear that she has, with her daughter, become mortal. She accepts a job nursing a new-born prince. To overcome trauma one must reintegrate into society using what talents one has, as the confidence to try new things almost disappears. A new orientation within the social world is necessary, a re-acculturation. The affect of the trauma should have strong anhedonic effects, making once pleasurable activities no longer pleasurable and value found within everyday life vanish. Trauma indicts the established order of things, and to recover one must understand the forces which led to painful objectification.
        Demeter’s tone throughout her interaction with the Eleusinian princesses is one of resignation. She begins her journey to regain her strength and self esteem by relying on her positive physical attributes, her physical object-hood over which she has no control but which make her valuable in nurturing a child, specifically her ability to nurse. Having these positive attributes acknowledged and put to positive purpose helps her to regain her confidence and sense of self-worth.
        Once in the company of the royal queen, however, she maintains her grief, because no mere mortal employment can reverse what has happened and bring back her daughter. Not until the servant Iambe make crude jokes can Demeter cheer up enough to even speak to her new employers. Bruce Lincoln cites a fragment of an Orphic hymn which Clement of Alexandria quotes in his attempt to show the pagan mysteries to be vulgar. In this same scene Iambe, a personification of the iambic meter used in comedy, is replaced with Baubo, whose name means ‘mock vagina’ and counterparts the dildo. Baubo lifts up her robes and the child Iakchos, the personification of the initiate’s jubilation shout, laughs and thrusts his hand under her breasts. This causes Demeter to smile and take up the kykeon to drink. This gesture clearly parodies sexual intercourse. It serves to make light of and celebrate female sexuality in the absence of men. Demeter is cheered, knowing her daughter to now be a woman like her.
        After Demeter puts the kykeon to her lips there follows a textual lacuna. The text resumes with Metaneira breaking a silence to again praise one of Demeter’s physical attributes, this time her eyes. The comment may simply refer to Demeter’s blue eyes to match her golden tresses, but in light of Hoffman’s work on the ergot fungus, Metaneira’s remark that Demeter’s eyes ‘show majesty’ could mean that her pupils, her ‘korai,’ had dilated under the influence of the kykeon. This is the only physical sign of tryptamine intoxication, and indicates the crisper, brighter vision enjoyed at low doses.
        The tryptamine experience also has the effect of unweaving the neurotic tapestry of the self while causing euphoria and a sense of connection with the wider world. These effects were briefly studied before the illegalization of the tryptamines. In the famous Marsh Chapel experiment, a Harvard Divinity School graduate student conducted the double-blind administration of psilocybin and placebo to divinity students in Boston University’s Marsh Chapel. Psilocybin is a tryptamine which occurs naturally in certain species of mushrooms. A statistically significant percentage of participants receiving psilocybin reported strong and positive mystical experiences. These results were duplicated by Johns Hopkins researchers in 2006.
        Perhaps the kykeon had a temporary healing effect which allowed her to connect with her employers, because she then becomes quite receptive, accepting the job offer explicitly and touting her knowledge of preventative magic. She promises to keep the child safe from poisons and witchcraft and alleviate teething pains. One herb used for this purpose, henbane, was also used to spice wines in order that might have deliriant effects to compliment the alcohol. Such ingredients were the reason ancient wines had to be diluted.
        As Demeter begins to remember and reapply her skills she meets great success. She anoints the boy with ambrosia and burns away his mortality in the fire. He grows like an immortal. But Metaneira finds her out, and then the power dynamic flips. Demeter becomes a goddess again in form, reassuming her former glory. She scolds Metaneira, makes predictions about the future, and demands more than her nurse’s payment - a temple to be built in her honor. She promises to teach the Eleusinians her rites in return. But once Celeus the king has built her temple, she goes there again to wallow in her grief, and the earth goes fallow. The trauma has not been righted, but she has found some strength to fight back. This sort of withholding strategy is also used to great success in Aristophanes’s Lysistrata.
        Now that Demeter has ceased her wandering and rooted her grief, causing men and the rest of the gods to suffer with her, the architect of her grief, Zeus, compromises and agrees to send back her daughter. The protagonist of the myth now morphs into Persephone, unwilling death-bearer, deep beneath the earth with her abductor. She can be seen as the part of the psyche damaged in trauma, the repressed pain, the newer and weaker part of one’s self that is more apt to hurt. She is tied to the perpetrator forever through the pomegranate seed. This symbol is loaded with meaning, from representing menses, the blood of the hymen, to the seed-filled sacs of both sexes.
        The reunion is joyous, of a self-estrangement overcome, a self reunited and enlarged. They recount and integrate their harrowing experiences of separation. Now that our protagonists have returned from their respective journeys, they each bring back something new yet familiar. Their fragmentation has not mended completely but their bond is stronger than before. Demeter must now fulfill her promise to teach the Eleusinians her powerful, life-affirming rites. The accompanying cast at this end of the Hymn is not the sympathetic Hecate and distant Helios, but an accommodating yet firm Zeus and a welcoming mother Rhea come to seal the deal. All involved are forever changed, though the cosmic order be restored.
Lady Gaga's "The Edge of Glory" repeated in my head for days. Hell, I tried praying to make her stop— which worked for a bit— but fast exhausted me. I tweeted "Worst earworm ever" and Vicky reminded me that 'earworm' already connotes pretty negatively. I went for a bike ride through Mission Hills and enjoyed the lactic acid. Some geeks driving by hollered "whoa" and "queer(?)" to my back after I had turned right to pedal up a hill. During this ride the earworm lost some punch. In my room I tried Grizzly Bear's "Two Weeks" and on my ride The Beatles' "Mean Mr. Mustard" but to fleeting avail. Now I'm listening to Sun Ra's Strange Strings in my room at my mom's. As much fun as I had in college, civilized living wins. Most of my career at uni felt like middle school: mentally foggy, emotionally volatile, sexually informative, politically disillusioning. I learned much, particularly to take everything I read or hear and twist all the words until I find a laugh. That strategy works for the Gaga earworm problem, too. I can make the song sound more or less slutty or absurd or catchy at will. Mission Accomplished, George W. Bush style. God Bless America: land of the free and home of the slave. Good thing I have Dave Ramsey to keep me my master. Now I just have to quit drinking so much coffee on an empty stomach in the morning so little snippets of pop music I heard on the radio don't drive me mental. Happy Fourth of July to everybody, especially all you Iraqis, Afghanis, and Libyans out there. You're welcome.

              
                
              
  
              
            
     
This work by Jim Koppen is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial 3.0 United States License.

     

   


I've got to admit, it's getting better. Last time this happened I'd be sneaking outside to smoke a joint and then going back to the basement to read spam. This time I walk ten steps to the kitchen to take a shot of gin and then go back to my room to read Bloomberg. These are the makings, fruits, and aftermath of my liberal arts degree.Edit: speaking of fruits, I should have my thesis edited, polished and online by simmer's end.
Guns, Germs, and Steel by Jared Diamond, page 40. Borrowed from Erica.Hydriotaphia: Urne-Buriall by Sir Thomas Browne, page 67. Borrowed from Kent. Anti-Oedipus by Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari, page 84. Bought from Amazon in February.Madness &amp; Civilization by Michel Foucault, page 159. Bought from Amazon in February.Finnegans Wake by James Joyce, page 109. Bought from Barnes and Noble with Timbae around December of 2007.
Control this, desiring-machines. Learn when to quit pushing.Good night, Fortuna.
I remember how, in 6th grade, after days of tension and recognition, I sat next to the new girl during a geometry lesson and we talked and everyone was quiet and listened as into a mirror.
Also born on pi day: Ludwig Grimm, Diane Arbus, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Kirby Puckett, Taylor Hanson, Stephen Curry, and Sasha Grey.
Hear my prayer.(As long as I don't watch video for too long my screen is fine)
I received a book in the mail today, called "The Art of Recklessness" by Dean Young. He needs a heart transplant, I heard somewhere (on Twitter?) and so I bought this book of his thinking it was a book of poems but instead it's a book of prose about poetry in a scholarly playful vein. To the point, my skimming and reading of what caught my eye in his book inspired me to copy and past a poem, which I excerpted earlier on this blog. This poem was written in a continuous TextEdit stream-of-consciousness and saved at 5:02 AM on Tuesday, April 24, 2007. Not sure if at that point in time(?) I had yet improvised ritual sacrifice to Dionysos of an entire bottle of Garnier Fructis shampoo-conditioner in the dorm bathtub. This is adolescent and embarassing and pain-full yet redmptive. A product of dysphoric mania, if you want to get medical. Let the exhumation begin:Whitman will be the death of me.but not ME.I wish I would have straight up told you but you stole my heart, and its too cold to love you like i used to so please refrain from caroling because its crazy fucked up and i'll put one in the cup because i don't care,i just liked his hair,does that make me vain i know i'm insane!please explain.bad poetry,oh noetry. you are the finest fox to ever jump out of the box.thanks for being my friend, even when I'm an island.  i want to talk to you on the phone soon.sorry this was so ridiculously emo.  like elmo.  he was red and cute and funny but reminds me of bugs bunny because his nose was like a carrot and he was always getting beaten by oscar the grouch, who was always cheatin' when's the meetin'?who's the cretin?i just love the whip and i know what that makes mea sado-masochist but i've never been kissed;sincerely, clearly,its a yearly thing this spring forward fall back listen to the sound of yo booty goin' smack like gack. thats crap.  but if you like that,i hope you get a good laugh or a good cry because this tension within me has just been building up so high i thought that slavery was funny and had an oral fixation like bugs bunny.i'm not sure if this is funny; but I do sincerely love you.I wish I had walked you to the doorI HATE TO BE SUCH A FUCKING BORE but i'm sore sore from mary jane her sweet caress drove me insane. google is talking to me.  that is bad.google is a very large number.  too large for any mind. howly aptly timed! i speak when i rhyme and rhyme when i speak and sometimes come across as though i am very meek but i'm over that creek a gypsy made me go eek and let out a shriek like a wolf in the night but that wolf will die soon and though people will lampoon i will hoodwink them enough that they're all filled with fluff from processed stuff what a muff dead meat scares me but only a bit,because i know that i can overcome it i threw a fit.i bit.i was bitten.i was smitten.she was like a kitten,and i, a black puppy floating along like a stupid guppy.this is a race,to the same place,but i dont want to win.i want to slow down and maybe begin again in a sense.trim the hedges,mend the fence.i have created for myself an intellectual suburbia and gas prices are sky-rocketing.  fuck geology.  i like biology.  not sociology, thats a folly see.i'm scared of blue people.  but who knew people could become like smurfs one with the turf one earth.i don't know what to worship anymore.  the popes in the middle ages were pimps.  disgusting.  opulent.  arrogant.  scare them then they'll be sheep and we will be a bald eagle,the birds of prey. and live to scavenge another day.the jungle haunts me like i read it yesterday.Drug Psychosis is a BITCH.  Like marry jane.  Divorce that shit and move on.  thats what my mom did.  pull it out of the ground, compost it.  sustainability is the key.  a very long and intricate key.  too long for any one person, really.  but if you stretch it out, the intricacies go away and it becomes all manner of grokable objects, if you'll excuse my french.i feel like an alien here.  i see the ants buzz around their little hive and wonder if they are just the stingers of dead bees.  or the smoke particles from burnt trees.I AM RADIOACTIVE TOXIC WASTE MIX ME UP INTO A PASTEI GOT into the game early.the virgin mary seduced me.and then it was a woodland nymph who stole my foreskin and made me scrambled.so i went for a stroll,and ended up in a knoll only to find i don't believe in mathWHAT?liminality brings so many things TOGETHERAND GOD SAID!LET THERE BE LIGHT!
How does one save another human being? Does one, like, download them to one's hard-drive? Would a devout Christian agree that we have all been saved onto Jesus's hard-drive?I took 5mg of Adderall at 9:30am yesterday and had a PBR at 5:30pm. Today I want to rip a Greek's throat out with my teeth.
Besides reproducing, violence is what humanity does best.  The main attraction of successful blockbusters also plays a prominent role in religious canons.  Every day, news media companies dutifully report the latest incidents of violence around the world.  For those who do not live in war zones, such top-down communication is the main source of information on the conflicts that concern them.  But what constitutes a conflict of concern heavily depends on the consumers.  The employees of media conglomerates know this and inform accordingly.  An overly shocking piece of information, image, or video will not be published.  However, as the internet becomes more widespread and influential, traditional media outlets cannot afford to hold back too much.  They must tell their audience what important events have taken place, even if they are difficult to handle.  To appropriately disturb an American audience, editors need to invite controversy in order to capture the attention of people whose sensibilities are continually challenged by other forms of mass media.&mdash;Different people are disturbed by different things.  Disturbing information causes anxiety, fear, or some other unpleasant change in mental state.  That which disturbs often implies human mortality or challenges basic cultural assumptions.  In their essay “Tragedy of the Common: Markedness and the Creation of Mundane Tragedy,” Stevphen Shukaitis and Rachel Lichtenfeld attempt to show “how the integration of images of tragedy and atrocity into daily life gradually move such events from highly marked occurrences to less visible occurrences” (471).  Towards the end of their discussion they explore how this process is used for political ends and the maintenance of normative values.  Sensory information influences thought processes and disturbing information can consequently inspire action.  How reporters select and present information plays an important role in how people perceive the reality the reporters attempt to capture.  For example, the press reported Saddam Hussein's crimes in the 80s and 90s, but, except for his invasion of Kuwait, they treated him like any other oppressive dictator.  In 2003, however, these crimes were brought to the public's attention as evidence that Hussein was willing to use any means necessary to hurt his enemies, regardless of international conventions.  Coupled with the flawed intelligence that Hussein's regime was actively pursuing a nuclear bomb, had stockpiles of chemical weapons, and supported al-Qaida, the American public largely backed the invasion of Iraq.&mdash;While the Iraq war divided the country before it began, supporters started to question the Bush administration’s motives as the war progressed.  The photographs from Abu Ghraib prison played an important role in this process and are some of the most disturbing images from the Iraq war.  Taken by a soldier with a digital camera, they show scenes of Americans torturing Iraqi prisoners in ways that would undoubtedly constitute cruel and unusual in the United States.  A widely shown picture from this set can be seen in Figure 1 on the attached page.  More shocking images from Abu Ghraib were shown on television, including scenes of physical torture and smiling American soldiers in front of abused inmates.  Unpublished from this same set were pictures of blindfolded prisoners being demeaned and sexually humiliated.  Further investigation revealed that the C.I.A. and military intelligence encouraged such tactics in order to break the prisoners’ spirits (Hersh 2).&mdash;Elaborating on the content of the photo collection and American use of torture in the War on Terror is beyond the scope of this essay, as the most shocking of these images were never widely shown.  A visual analysis of the photo in Figure 1 demonstrates how an image can disturb the Western psyche and cause controversy without showing anything explicitly horrific. In this iconic photo, a male prisoner wears a black hood and black sheet, stands on a box, and holds his arms at shoulder level.  Electrical wires hang from his hands.  This is clearly a scene of torture.  The prisoner is barely clothed and kept blind by the hood.  Balancing on the box, his captors presumably shock him repeatedly, resulting in him falling to the floor.  Looking deeper, this image also contains serious symbolic baggage.  The black hood and sheet are reminiscent of the white robes and pointed hats of the Ku Klux Klan.  Looked at with this in mind, the image can evoke thoughts of the American demon of racism manifesting itself in an evolved form.  The prisoner's pose evokes an even more powerful and international religious symbol.   Electrical wires replace the nails that held Jesus to his cross, reminding technophilic Westerners of the sinister side of civilization.  These two provocative but subtle pictorial associations destroy any illusion that the moral high ground belongs to the United States. Before the Abu Ghraib scandal, there was still a sense that maybe the US was doing something good in Iraq.  While the administration changed the focus of its rhetoric from protecting America from weapons of mass destruction to liberating the oppressed Iraqi people, faith in American superiority remained.  Abu Ghraib’s sobering implications took a while to sink in and never did for some – according to a Pentagon survey conducted in September 2006, over a third of American soldiers believe torture is sometimes justified (“Contaminated” par. 2).  After the torture discussion in the press revealed the callous attitudes of Bush’s cabinet and many resigned, the coverage of the war became less intense; people pay less attention when their side is not clearly in the right. The photo chosen for analysis is, admittedly, an exceptional case.  Though traditionally liberal media outlets covered Abu Ghraib extensively, televised coverage of the war has not been as critical.  The New York Times recently published a lengthy article by an investigative reporter examining how military analysts who appeared on broadcast television, cable news and NPR were often defense lobbyists and military contractors.  So, the people widely-trusted news outlets deferred to on-air for objective perspectives on the war stood to personally profit from the conflict and worked closely with the Department of Defense to actively sell the war.  According to Media Matters, a web-based, not-for-profit media research and information center, those mentioned in the article appeared or were quoted on spoken newscasts 4,500 times since January 1, 2002 (“Military” par. 1). As this shocking information and Lichtenfeld and Shukaitis's essay make clear, the assumptions and desires of the established institutional order permeate the news.  Television, magazines, newspapers, movies, literature, music, web sites and other forms of mass media and entertainment construct a consensus reality.  Most Americans do not risk disturbing encounters in their daily lives, so external media provide the most shocking visual information.  Horror movies, in particular, tend to push the limits of what is considered shocking.  It seems counter-intuitive, however, that people would deliberately frighten themselves.  Stephen King, in a short but persuasive essay entitled “Why We Crave Horror Movies,” explains the appeal of such movies – they allow people to confront and enjoy the morbid, nasty, and gruesome aspects of life from which movie-goers are often detached.  This is why “good liberals often shy away from horror films” (par. 12).  What King seems to ignore, however, is that paying attention to international affairs allows screen-watchers to confront horror as well. Not surprisingly, horror films rarely carry as much political baggage as the nightly news.  If it is not explicit, it is normally implied who the “good guys” and “bad guys” are in each reported story.  Less people would watch the news if it were presented as senseless carnage.  News stories about American soldiers protecting the land of the free overseas borrow conventions from Hollywood action movies and vice versa. Around the time Iran was scrutinized by the UN on suspicion of a covert nuclear weapons program and John McCain sang “Bomb bomb bomb, bomb bomb Iran,” the movie 300 was released.  It is loosely based on the battle of Thermopylae, in which a group of three hundred Spartan soldiers held off a much larger invading Persian force for three days.  The movie was criticized in the press for its portrayal of the ancient Persians, who are the ancestors of modern day Iranians.  Based on a comic book of the same name, the movie portrayed the Greeks as stereotypically masculine and militaristic.  While the Spartans probably looked more like modern-day Egyptians, the actors chosen to play them are a cross-section of Euro-Americans.  The Persians, on the other hand, were portrayed as monsters and led by an androgynous, hedonistic giant.  Even though, as Slavoj Žižek notably pointed out, the movie correctly portrays the Persians as the imperialist aggressors, the differences between the opposing sides are heavily exaggerated (par. 2).  The dialogue directly appeals to American values with lines like “freedom isn’t free” while demonizing a group already perceived as Other.  Though it is no gorier than a typical R-rated action flick, the movie is not disturbing in any positive sense; it simply exploits and reinforces antagonistic cultural stereotypes during a time of tension – and comes troublingly close to propaganda. If editors want to provoke thought and action critical of the established political order and compete with movies like 300 for the attention of American audiences, they must consider the implications of what they report and what it communicates to their audience.  They must also be wary of outside sources of information.  To effectively inform the only assumption necessary is that the audience is curious and able to follow a story told in everyday language.  To insure curiosity, disturbing information can be effective, but focusing on human stories can help offset the ennui caused by news from abroad and connect such news to viewers' lives. Modern Americans are passive observers of large amounts of violence.  Their perception of real violence cannot help but be influenced by the narrative structures that frame Hollywood’s violent fantasies.  It is important that disturbing information continue to inform the public discourse.  Without it, the nation would lose its vitality and eventually stagnate.  Future generations need to be exposed to scenes of real violence in an informative context so they can come to terms with this part of life and become interested in the real conflicts of our world.  The case of the iconic picture from Abu Ghraib shows how images can undercut the passivity of jaded audiences and communicate a large amount of information without carnage or indecency.  Because the picture speaks to Westerners on a basic pictorial level, it has the potential to cut through the calluses created by previous images and cause people to think critically about the consequences of their government’s actions.
A pack of tails: Thousands of insects scavenging a tomb somewhere in a Zoroastrian village near the city of Yazd; a warfare of vibration. These exhuming machines unleash a nonhuman silence best characterized as acoustic smog, a molecular noise wreaking sonic havoc. Sounds are rabies, spread by rat tails.&mdash; Reza Negarestani, Cyclonopedia, p 53, ch Bacterial Archeology: Nether, Sub-Soil and Xeno-Chemical Insiders, § MACHINES ARE DIGGING
National Novel Writing month. I participated in national poetry month last April on this blog, writing punny poems about my experiences taking pharmaceuticals. This month I would like to write a novel. Of course you'll see what I write each day without much editing so it'll be total shit. Play:Twenty three days later... I find this draft of a blog post. If I were to write a novel, I'd have to use a pen. Like a year ago I started writing down ideas for a narco-political thriller in a moleskine that I now use to prop up my laptop to prevent overheating. Fuck. That. This. Fuck.
Written in HWC111 class, reproduced here unedited.The southern heat burnt the tops of the leaves, keeping the lemon at a warm, reasonable, non-spoiling temperature. The great noon shone not on the copulation below. The lemon knew ripeness and that necessity—to drop; the sinews holding together stem and branch slow-pulled by gravity the lemon to loving fate. The top on the ground at the lemon's tree's roots arched, eyes closed to the pink sun. A snap above and the lemon fell and landed in open mouth.The lustful, now-sated migrant carried the lemon in his pocket on the chest of his overalls for the rest of the day. His boss caught sight of his sentimental theft—however—and the lemon went from pocket to hand to hand to bin to conveyer to truck to market, only to be sliced along the indentions made by singing teeth.
There I sit now,In this smallest oasis,Just like a date,Brown, sweet through, oozing gold, lustingFor the round mouth of a girl,But even more for girlish,Ice-cold, snow-white, cuttingIncisors: for after thesePants the heart of all hot dates.-Zarathustra's Shadow, The Wanderer, Thus Spoke Zarathustra Part IV, by Friedrich Nietzsche, translated by Walter Kaufmann
Stuck in my throat. I wish the pill would stay there and never wash down to my stomach where dissolution will send chemicals into my bloodstream to mimic nicotine and inhibit MAO-B and keep me blasé.What worth, what value. Values come and go and stay and overstay and say stupid things and hold back. Irony's not a spear. More like a hiding place.The lioness on the cheese grater: Milk me. Up with your rump.Surviving only to perpetrate excruciates. Apologizing and defending and feeling angry for something pervasively influential. Typical for an American Catholic boy of my generation; posthumous anger could boil salty seas. Nazi rat fuck corpse rot. Thus it was, Thus I willed it, Thus it will be again. Again! Ressentiment.
The nation that makes a great distinction between its scholars and its warriors will have its thinking done by cowards, and its fighting done by fools.—Thucydides
Remember that time as a kid when you saw that awesome picture you drew for your mom in the trash? How devastating.
Rest in Peace Professor Tony Genova
Because it's rude to talk about yourself.Batman, The Invisibles, Dream, Spider Jerusalem, Wolverine
Looking through old notebooks can be science-fictional:Geometry is intuitiveAlgebra is self-consciousThe Indo-Europeans brought cows to India. The cows were sacred to the conquerers. These divine animals began to eat the cannabis plants which grew wild in India and the cannabinoids got into the milk of the bovine, leading to an enhanced mystical mindset among the light-skinned, aggressive conquerers. Justification for Aryan rule was mostly physical as they had better weapons and fighting techniques. The cannabinoids got into their heads and they began eating and burning the sacred local plant. This led to impotent priests, sickly but deeply profound.Genetically engineer trees into skyscraper-like dwelling places.A digital keyboard that capitalizes by pressure sensors under the keys that increase the size of the letter the more pressure you put on itdot org, cy borghurricanenovacainedot com, car bombA, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, LSDHippocampusholy mantisDrowsy drosphiliabuzz in suburbiabut whatever youdo, don't fall asleep or you'll be abrainductedI thought it would be funny. I mean,Honestly, what's the fuss about?Those primitive monkeys were just asgood as any other fuel for the Tigon.They were outside that fucking nature reservewe gave them, anyway SentimentDecember 21st, 2012 is the birthdate of the Mahdi, the one who will unite the descendants of Abraham
Humility is not a virtue propitious to the artist. It is often pride, emulation, avarice, malice--all the odious qualities--which drive a man to complete, elaborate, refine, destroy, renew his work until he has made something that gratifies his pride and envy and greed. And in so doing he enriches the world more than the generous and good, though he may lose his own soul in the process. That is the paradox of artistic achievement.-Evelyn Waugh
A Family Conversation, Overheard in a Coffeeshop nearly One Year Ago-It's like Matthew twenty two twenty one instead of John three sixteen.-What?-Give unto Caesar what is Caesar's-I want a Caesar salad-...-I'm hungry-You're going to have a seizure?-Ha...ha-...-Let's go-No I still need to finish my tea-We could have made this tea at home-Yeah, it's just tea with ice, like real watery and mild-Well you were the one who wanted to come here-Yeah but I didn't know the tea would be so mild-Why didn't you get coffee?-Well, tea is different, like the enzymes it has are better-But they both have caffeine, it's like the active ingredient-Yeah but the caffeine is wrapped up in different enzymes in tea-...Well, I'm done with it, anyways-I'll drive the red car and you can drive the convertible, have the wind tussle your hair-The only problem is my golf clubs are in the red car-Do you want to go hit some golf balls right now?-If we do we should go now because it's going to close-No it's open 'til like ten-Yeah but we want to get there before people who get off work early-...was that some sort of passive aggressive thing, like-No, no, not passive aggressive.
I seem to have encountered what is commonly referred to as writer's block. Which has me thinking about why I write in the first place. Or more specifically, what I am trying to do when I write, what purpose my writing serves.In the past writing has mostly been an outlet for me when I was emotionally or intellectually overwhelmed. Much of my early writing is suffused with depression and what must be called emo, though I wasn't into that scene at the time. So, kind of like writing for a diary, keeping track of days and feelings.In school I wrote because I had to, and found that in certain cases I enjoyed doing so. If I liked my teacher I felt like a writing assignment was a chance at a monologue towards them tailored to the particular topic du jour. Otherwise school writing served to prove my intelligence and worthiness of a strong grade.After my forays into psychedelia my writing became focused on capturing as much as I could of those voyages, feelings and thoughts and motivations and justifications. I had a strange idea that the drugs were tools with which I could accomplish mental work. They worked that way to a degree but often I lost control of the direction of the trip and found myself in unanticipated headplaces.Now I primarily write for blogs, which ties into my diary-like compulsion to write and self-analyze, and for school -- essays and short stories. Essays are thought experiments, pure and simple, and I feel comfortable writing those for the most part. A short story, however, is what I currently am suffering a block on.Typically my short stories have been accounts of my past. For some reason since tuning in I've been less creative in my fiction and more dedicated to drawing out old memories into fleshy stories, combining my surely somewhat fictitious memory with what I make up, trying to stay true to my emotive associations with the events I am fictionalizing. This may be the source of my writer's block.Basing fiction in what you know is a rule of sorts. However, I think I am basing my fiction a bit too literally in what I remember, what I feel I know about my own past. Perhaps this amounts to an attempt to solidify my sense of self which was destabilized after all the drugs. Instead of dredging up minutia from my memory and trying to weave them together into some kind of coherant and meaningful story, I need to free myself from those artificial constraints and just make up plot. My memories are not short fiction. They live in a medium all their own. Trying to turn them into short fiction cheapens both.If I am to keep up with my work this semester and survive academically, I need to separate my memory and my fiction. True stories might be powerful but I cannot tell a true story about what happened to me in middle school because my memories of middle school are not recent or complete enough for a true story. They affirm the truth I know but are not the truth. That, indeed, lies beyond me or any other human being.So, why do I write short stories now? I can't quite say. Maybe reading Badiou's Affirmationist manifesto again might help me put my reasons into words. Or perhaps the reasons will come to me over time as I work. My Fiction Writing teacher Adam Desnoyers wrote something salient and poignant relating to this topic in a recent email:The artist is about the specific and about honesty.  Instead of reducing human beings to abstractions like goverments (especially at war) consistently do, the artist's job is to complicate the identities of people and be specific about their humanity.Word up.Also, helpful and instructive are Italo Calvino's five literary values: lightness, quickness, exactitude, visibility, and multiplicity. I read the book, Memos for the New Millenium, in which he explains these values. I should channel that wisdom, and not belabor my task. Tell a story.
China will dethrone the USA as the hegemonic empire. Much of the fighting will happen through the internet, like DDoS attacks on utilities and central hubs, and between robots, like drone planes and remote controlled hummers. A nuclear weapon may detonate, perhaps on the Eastern seaboard of the USA assuming missile defense isn't built. Maybe some satellites will be shot down. Likely the war will precipitate from ecological crises throughout the globe and the resulting chaos.
Never have I ever. Unless the web counts.During cold times I find myself wishing I lived in Louisiana or California or Greece or Brazil. Nevertheless, cold enforces an austerity and social cooperation that warmer regions lack. Passions are dimmed, energy's constrained. But shells keep warm.I've been cleaning for over a month now. A month and days. There's still mess and there always will be. Clean is a process. Ebb and flow, crash and roll. Balance on board among waves that are particles that are waves. Smile.Practice your spelling. Use your body.Addendum: I feel younger this year.
Sometimes it's hard to speak with certainty. Boundaries seem nebulous. Sickness abides. Will I be forever sick and have to be forever medicated? What an awful thought. Maybe it's true, though. Often my ills seem curable. Or not an illness at all. Over and over and chronic.I feel well enough, but I'm not doing what I am supposed to do. And that is OK with me. Something must change, and something will.Appropriate, like a pirate.
A reality sitcom for the small screen:Shaggy, an unkempt slouching paranoid, lives in a messy urban apartment with his neurotic lawyer girlfriend Velma and their mini-bloodhound-like dog Scrappy. They are stoned all the time. Shaggy works as a private eye for friends and acquaintances. Scrappy's enthusiastic nose and barked responses are the key factor in solving most of their cases. He and Shaggy are together at all times, even in public. Velma helps them theorize about their cases when she's not working on her own. Coincidence and surreality abound.Possible cases:Lost keys/bags/phonesPetty theftsWeird bruisesStained clothesBizarre graffitiSuspected infidelitiesMissing fast food itemsPossible Villains:Nun wearing a Nixon maskCrazy homeless dudePreppy customerDrunk/High selfCareless employeeMeddlesome hackerBitter professorTo be continued... when in a more appropriate headspace.
Today in Western Civilizations class I made a list of cities in which I would like to live for a time if I were to become a nomadic expat.Hong KongGeneva, SwitzerlandMumbai, IndiaLagos, NigeriaSalvador, BrazilBeirut, Lebanon
We act every day.After my cousin got married on August 1st an uncle, two cousins, a soon-to-be cousin-in-law and I went to a meat-market bar in The Power &amp; Light District in KC, MO. We were drinking and smoked a funny cigarette on the streets. In the loud warm blinking flashing claustrophobic bar many pretty girls were dancing on a stage. I wanted to dance with them so I got up on stage and did so. I heard the DJ talking over the music and off-stage grunts. I didn't realize, until a fat head-shaking bouncer came on stage and told me to get off - girls only - that they'd been making noises at me. No suits near the stripper poles. I was embarrassed. But I am reinterpreting the incident now as feminist performance art.My best favorite research papers from days yore -- "The Lebanese Civil War" and "The History of the Internet" -- are tossed forever.
Written on January 21st, 2009Academia and evangelical fundamentalism do not mix. The United States treats politics like a secular religion. A fascinating spectacle but worrying at the same time. The invocation of God in state rhetoric implies divine mandate. Barack at least emphatically included non-believers in his speech, but that emphasis tells of the ubiquity of religious belief. To rule such a powerful and symbolic entity, Obama must employ a mixture of PoMo, doubt-based Abrahamism and empirical, definition-based Academism. Essentially, he must be a CEO. America, Inc. has to be sold to the world. It would be hard to find someone else with a story and pedigree that fills this role as well as Barama.
They say that writings have the power to determine the future. Write a story, it resonates through your life, the lives of those who read it. Frightening, a bit. I'm amazed at how much I can see with my glasses on. You have to take them off for a while to appreciate it, though. How aware are you available tomorrow night? Ghosts walk the streets at night, haven't you heard? The vampires have taken over and all walk during the days thanks to technology. Gotta love technology.
Biotic myopic monadStop. You can't. OK?Being stuck is not real;what you see when you lookin the mirror.You can't stop a windfall;Less, less, less, less less!soak: of animals we're badat letting a crest fall.diction contradicts significant --call golden foam.But it's a plant!..change your nameand save the paystub.Found an April poem that for whatever reason I drafted but didn't post. I'm posting it now because...it's the First of July.
Working all day four days a week bores me but pays me. I will receive a healthy dollop of purchasing power one week before Pitchfork. Playin' the game...I've acquired some Romulan. Or mayhaps it's called Romulus. Regardless, I'm now acquainted with a key player in a passionate epic. Quest visions tumble through my mind, promising loot and experience points.Long form escapes me. Too much Tweeting. Too many Transitions to juggle.Yesterday, I played Prototype on the XBOX360. It's wicked. Imagine: A zumbi virus has leaked from GENTEK HQ on Manhattan Island. Blackwatch and the Marines are trying to quash the outbreak with gas-masked brute. Alex, our protagonist, wakes up on a GENTEK operating table and escapes from scientific inquiry using puzzling super-powers. Consume people - absorb their health,  memories, and physique - and parkour from the Chrystler to Empire State, earning Evolution Points to upgrade Alex's genome. Soon he's Spiderman, Wolverine, The Hulk, Dr. Octopus, Superman, Mystique, Punisher, and more, all rolled into one. And Manhattan's your GTA-style playground. Except for the infected zones; they're your Left4Dead-style playground. So, in summary, bioweapons of mass disruption battle in The Big Apple to unravel a conspiritious epidemic.Or something like that. I often found myself neglecting the conspiracy and committing insanities. Like consuming and morphing into a suit, using a pickup truck as a battering ram, running down the street a few blocks, and throwing the burning wreckage at an angry helicopter. Or like becoming a well-dressed middle-aged blond woman and firing an assault rifle at anything that moves. Or taking disguise as a black man, hijacking a tank and runnin' up on them crackers in the city hall. Or grabbing someone I must consume to further the plot, but dragging him around for a while beforehand, like Achilles did after he killed Hector.The Iliad begins with a singular, feminine, accusative form of a word meaning "wrath, anger."
   It's dawn on the roof of the former tenement I live in here in the Borough. My son isn't happy about being awake: he's screaming, pacing around and being spiteful in his would-be-cute-if-it-wasn't-so-fucking-scary way. He's fifteen and I've given up sending him to doctors. Clare's standing at the balcony smoking her morning joint. I go over to her and put my arm around her waist.   "Lovely sunrise. The city's commuters have outdone themselves."   "Always so clever so early, Spence. Funny paradox about smog and sun transitions, though."   "Speaking of sun transitions, you should get him to smoke with you or put some of that stuff in his breakfast or something. These tirades were invigorating for a while but now they're just too much."   "Either that or you need to lay off the Nuvigil."   "Go drink your coffee, neanderthal."   "Go use your cyborg logic to run a cool down sequence on our little monster, clown."   So, Remiel's raving about some carbomb that just killed 33 in the Hagia Sophia when I come over to cast my spell:   "Hey, at least damage to the architecture was superficial, yeah?"   "Those terrorists don't know what they're defacing! So devoid of education."   "More educated than you, buddy."   "I read and watch and study cross-continental politics more than you or any of the so-called mullahs who send these slum dogs to their deaths."   "You'd think one of those slum-dogs might be struck by the beauty or essence or cultural memory of the place they're supposed to splatter and not go through with it."   "Not bloody likely, with all the indoctrination they've been through."   "I'm thinking we need to do a better job indoctrinating you, lil' monster. If you did this morning ritual in one of the courtyards you'd be hauled away to the pharm clinic."   "And I've had enough of your chemical meddling and armchair pathologizing, pill-head."   Sigh.   "So much animosity for a Monday morning."   Clare's swallowing her roach with a pull of coffee and then:   "Yeah, Thelema yesterday wasn't calming. Portentious is more the word."   "Well, seems like we've all done what we wilt for the morning. It's almost seven, time to get going."
 The man sat offstage in a state of extreme unease. His eyes glanced furtively around, and his heart set the tempo for his thoughts. “Why me?” he asked, “why oh why does it have to be me. Why can’t they just give me the damn thing and get it over with.” He ran his hands through his hair nervously and sunk deeper into the chair. The din of the audience had grown, and it sounded to him like a hungry pack of babbling baboons; who, while they looked and sounded civilized enough, would rip your throat out if they deemed it appropriate. He stuck two fingers between his neck and his collar, loosing his new tie. He needed to pee in the worst way, but each time he had visited it before, the feeling had gone away.  At the sound of “Ladies and gentlemen” his heart leapt and hit his voicebox, evoking a strange noise from his throat. The announcer had stepped up to the podium. As he spoke, the man’s anxiety soared. He remembered his arms, tightly pressed against his body, and when he lifted them he became acutely aware of the sweat that had left small stains on his new shirt. When he heard his name called, he bolted upright, and stood stiffly. The announcer looked at him, smiling. He returned the smile. He stalled before going on stage. His vocal chords tightened when he saw the size of the audience, and his throat constricted at the sight of some prominent individuals. He stepped to the podium and cleared his throat, swallowed, fidgeted, swallowed, and the enunciated into the microphone:  “Cheese puffs.”
Little activity on the blogspots these days. Maybe I scared people away with my bad rhymes. Or more really Twitter and Tumblr have made Blogger obsolete.Anyway, I haven't done much writing as of late. Smacked out a brief scene the other day -- a couple and their kid in the morning on the roof of their building in Brooklyn, or sommat. I also uncovered  an absurd little story I wrote around Sophomore year of high school. Two drafts, one page, front and back. The setup and ending are the same in both drafts but the middling bits are different. Mostly details about circumstances, those bits. Revision's something to have fun with. And I don't have to compose blank-page. Daunting, innit?I've gabbed about putting on a play. That sounds fun but's a major undertaking. Hasn't gone beyond dreamy talk, yet. I'm taking Greek Drama and Lyric Poetry next semester, so I'll maybe pillage some of that material. I just want to act again and get better at writing dialog. And entertain people. I miss extra-cirricular activities.This is all self-absorbed, but it's fun to share.
The boy was small, with light hair and eyes that were bouncing around in their sockets. The girl was taller, with dark hair and piercing eyes."Hello," he said."Hello," she replied."I found it," he hazarded."Did you now?""Yes, I found it in the room.""Oh, that room.""Yes, that one.""You know you're just going to lose it again.""Yes, I know; I will find it again as well.""Yes, I suppose you will."She began to turn away, but he interrupted her softly:"You will lose yours soon as well."She smiled weakly, tiredly."Yes, you're right," she said, turning away, her smile widening. "I wondered how long it would take you."***He was sitting, waiting for the plane that would take him away. His face was worn and pre-maturely old, like his clothes. He looked around sadly, with a hint of hope in his solemn expression. As he surveyed his surroundings he saw a woman who was smiling widely, sitting behind him, a few empty seats away."Why are you so happy?" asked the man.The woman looked at him and smiled and began to explain.The voice called the man's flight, cutting off the woman's explanation.The man swore, apologized, picked up his things and hurried to catch his plane. As he walked he glanced back at the smiling woman. She was still smiling, but her face conveyed sorrow for him. Puzzled, the man turned his face back towards his destination, putting the woman out of his mind.***Written on a page of notes -- first on front, second on back -- from early high school, sometime.
There once was a monkey named StanWho looked quite funny when he ranHe liked to sing and laugh and play and was well known throughout the land.Now Stan came upon a man who wasn't much different than Stan except for the fact that he was not well known and looked quite natural when he ran.The man said to Stan - "why hi"and Stan replied with a lie"How nice it is to see you today,now that the sun is high."Now a funny thing happened then,It seems a shrunken head struck a henAnd soon another fell, then three, then five,and Stan wished he could count higher than ten."Oh no it's raining shrunken heads!"the man yelled and they both wished that they were dead.Probably written around Sophomore year of high school.
that was National Poetry Month. Happy May Day, comrades.
this is a race to the same place but i dont want to win i want to slow down and maybe begin again in a sense trim the hedges mend the fence from a text file saved April 24th, 2007 5:02 AM
Fiscal matters asideSomething must be doneNothing works to make healthy first impressions so make a mask out of football seed foreclosures. Run and endure and get meaty but just stressing does not make able to ask for what you want;masks expression stunt.
A call from the skyA green fragment giftMore snot to blow or pick and eat for soft gaze light with no lens;talk laugh smile right lie and dissolve the box with a sulfur drop making fun in tense present to flirt more as hip to visions;an amber helix dancing in letters hawks shimmering numb caterpillars who groove to music fun yet distant through a somatic filter turning around legs sought while the clock flies.
Tupac falls asleep with a cocktail in a pear-shaped glass of S.O.B. juice made for sleep therapy to stop his paranoia and the war made of blackmail and more back stabbing and fear accepted and careful.A mutant a Wolverine taken care of by the good doctor a man of letters and email who makes drug test miracles even though all the medicine alters his mind and adjusts the scope of his love.That morning a banana and Cheerios cull one hunger but libido like a capped volcano drives the inability to see the forest for the trees mapped because no one visit for art therapy would take back the doctor's will to betray the coastal icon who died that had day.
Laying awake, sing then smile crying since five aches from a teepee rapid-cycle the stomach with electric subtle twitches; clenched metal mouth tastes nothing but notes death on screen in a North Irish song of demean-led subtext. Man smells of rot and ick because the syndrome belies the symptom on the uptake for the serum south of the order; next year in prison nocturnal days string out derelict off white boxes just to make valid the past and grate deep only to kid.
All be four mourn point five tolerant OK weened me withDoc talk after start mow and forgot so long that dreams don't invade ink but color the day orange fun.yellow vacuum first run cool burn then out so to finish off a night factor three and quarters succeed charmed drunk valley worship bitch to drive fine easily home.
heavy prison sleep dumb crutched suspicion will lead to a self-stop
need a boost from not the juice? you will well and give 'em hell get over what ails you and win!can do but can't be loose no do work listen the knell glory calls get more than sin get the girl but don't feed sleep won't come too angry swell with contrary lucidity they goose stoop until walking be well but still offend: no regret for you fuck  you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck fuck you you fuck. they can't stand so quell him. Another philosophy class pharma-poem.
robot seeds distort and fuzz;pop two and swallow each day,feel drugged and forsake buzz: time fogs and blurs to static -numb, can't feel what to say. stimuli filters through glaze, thick grime and sick's what it does,precise blue cryptext on gray:the thick pill State says it may.I wrote this poem in Ancient Philosophy class a week ago. My teacher's sonorous droning has soundtracked two more poems in a similar vein.Hope you've enjoyed this brief intermission from oldies. Next on that list is science fictions.
Written late Spring, early Summer 2007.Fear and Loathing in the PanopticonI like poetry but this sucks oh noetry! the ducks! Dark angel drug addict crawling out of the grave poppin' pills, kill bill fun stuff, lotsa snuffMary save your daughtersFreya save your sons give us super viral killers and plasma gunsHalo over her dark head, making my brain go to bedLeaden bread, seven ugly leech warriors fighting with my meds. I am bhratman but not batman that though ar tfrat thou fart Greek language is TRAGIC like Thucydides who wrote killer bees into Medusa's magic Creepy Jesus wannabe hitting on a demon, possessed by methamphetamine.Mean-spirit, psychotics hear it; sheRefuses inpatient, because she is impatient and full of rotting pride.Can't just accept help, can't stop lyingCan't just drop the cross, run'n hide.You won't be locked up, but you'veLOST control. You need help, girlInsure, Ensure, that little people get what they need. Chickens swirl and strut and bob like steeples.Winds all connected, shrapnelYOUR CHILD NEEDS YOU BETTER  and away from David. He is King no longer.Television spews American dreamsTelevision news American screamsMovies cue American creamsMovies blue American beams Coptic nobs in an imaginary unit,crazy villagers chase the geegaws and Osiris takes them away likeChrist, scatterbrained by cancer sticks;Concentration, consternation, no one likes to live in hell but the plains of limbo are neatly chaotic likeGarfield's door. GG, noob, is hazy and crazy, not lazy but confused as to her identity. Cares like a bear in portapotties. Welcome to the desolated Valley of the Dolls. Noodles disordered. Fnord. Thanatos VERITAS übermenschen thick tension makes for easy travel between spaces and faces
Written in Spring of 2007 on a orange divider in my only school notebook, in pencil. On freaks and GreeksI spend mental weeks searching for some sense, and my conscious thought weaves a devious plot and makes synapse too dense. I had never seen the show Freaks and Geeks thinking about thinking is an obituary inking The over examined life invites unneeded strife and drags the soul into an infinite hole.
Written in Summer and Fall of 2006 in a personal notebook, in pen. My early attempts at poetry.{thematic couplet}I'm here but I'm not all explosions and rot "Severe Gastro-Intestinal Discomfort" a hurricane ravages my stomach weather problems in my bowels here is what happens when digestion runs afoul inspired by an Untitled Joan Miró a sea of blue disturbed by a crash leaving a gash of red eye through preceded by a portrait in pen Jimi Hendrix:the man whose guitar slew legions of angels before they could bring his bad-ass down. sand never was I more than a piece of crap; the more me there is, the less light there is to fight back for who are we,nature coupled with whatever gods may be,to destroy our source forever hidden{stink}I can smell your hell in the words you speak and I can taste your faith in the harvest you reap have courage struggling one for one day you will be even more and less than you are hee death to me would be a fright to see but everything happens eventually "altered poetry" Open a doorTake a peak in;What's on the floor is a benign sinStare for a while close the door farm a broken home confrontational phone calls without provocation make me confused and maybe someday things gators beneath my consciousness is a deep pool from which i call forth the wrath and fury of a tempest worthy of neglected gods confuzzies structure eludes me the more I understand the less I know and I almost never can tell what is going on.from this springs happiness everlasting my girls sprites haunt me,and do not understand why anyone would be given to flights of meloncholy grillio famine, drought, disease, guns something beautiful this way comes end a new birth an old death everyone is evil but love,tough and sometimes mean love is bigger than spite,toxic and absurd hate,so good is more rather than grand
I have six notebooks from the past three years. Five suffered water damage in a basement flood. I'm rooting through them and will be posting embarrassing, funny, poetic, clever, sad, wise, nutty, introspective, exhortative, speculative, prophetic, and some of the inbetween. Stay tooned.
An Apology @ George W BushGeorge Junior - a privileged born-again burnout, a Prince Hal - spoke with folk eloquence. His singly-minded deception rallied dramatic charges. He gave bullgy speeches assuring victory to the outnumbered patriots. That proud rebellion from the fringe of our kingdom had fueled our boys to the mountains and desserts. We were in bed with true warriors. Then minds drifted back to domestic rope-pullings while the shellshocks continued. George grafted some pals and spurned others, parroting Shakespeare's Henry V.But, unlike Henry, no war spoils for George. The cradle of civilization was not France; a Saudi oil princess can't be won. So no scandle to distract from destruction and unite the faithful. Just chest bumps and shoe dodges and masked melancholy. Some things have changed.Six weeks ago George had lunch with Rush Limbaugh. There was glass shrapnel in his peanut butter, honey, and red jelly sandwich. He crunched it up and swallowed it down. Afterward he walked Rush out of the White House, glancing enigmatic at staffers, grinding sand 'tween wisdom teeth.
Every word is a god."A man's brain is a bomb. My brain feels like a bomb, night and day. It must expand! It must expand! A man's brain must expand, if it breaks up the universe." &nbsp;The Man Who Was ThursdayGabriel was working in Alaska. As a boy he always dreamed of moving North, living in a cabin, and writing. When he got there he took a job that paid bills and left him time to write. But he would get restless in his cabin and go exploring. He brought a gun.Night was rolling in and Gabriel was returning to his cabin to write until sleep. To his right in the woods he saw Bear, something in its mouth, padding along. He started but kept quiet and Bear heard him and looked. Bear turned toward him without breaking stride. Gabriel kept walking. He looked down through the trees at his cabin and focused. Bear would leave him alone.Ten paces and he stole a peek at Bear. Closer now. Bear walked slow, but was headed to cut Gabriel off before he reached his cabin. Gabriel ran. Bear ran. Gabriel saw Bear still had something in its mouth but he was scared. He stopped and pointed his gun and shot. Bear was hit in the leg but kept galloping towards Gabriel. He shot again and again and Bear kept galloping.Bleeding Bear stood in front of trembling Gabriel. At his feet a dead raven."did you shoot this raven?""...yes"Bear sucked wind."...""raven created the world.""...""raven is vengeful, ghostface. respect them and you will not be alone."That night Gabriel dreamed he was in the woods behind his house, following a raven, shooting at it. He loved the raven with all his being. The raven led him into a clearing. At the other end of the clearing was a gate.Gabriel followed the raven through the gate and never woke up again."This is a tale of those old fears, even of those emptied hells, And none but you shall understand the true thing that it tells-- Of what colossal gods of shame could cow men and yet crash, Of what huge devils hid the stars, yet fell at a pistol flash." &nbsp;The Man Who Was Thursday
mover math cure wet alibi clean say my day mean case laugh race dream forget
Recently, Bob took a picture.It caught my attention. Maybe it's the woozy diagonal, the speckled tiles, the cathedral spear of sun, or the black-edged static patch. Regardless, I like it.
Rosa Canina means dog's rose in Latin but the plant's fruit is called rose hips. I bought an ounce of dried rose hips a week ago from Persephone's Journey, the HERBS shop on 11th and Massachusetts. I read that these buds are rich in vitamins and minerals; make delicious jams and syrups; contain an unusually high amount of essential fatty acids; and treat colds, influenza, minor infectious diseases, scurvy, osteoarthritis, diarrhoea and gastritis.Bao Ninh writes about rosa canina in The Sorrow of War, a novel about his youth as a North Vietnamese soldier. The most beautiful novel I've left unfinished, it's where I first heard of rosa canina:Between the jungle and the forest along this stream, rosa canina blossomed in the rain, whitened everywhere, its perfume filling the air, especially at night. The perfume vapor permeated our sleep, fueling erotic, obsessional dreams, and when we woke the perfume had evaporated but we were left with a feeling of smoldering passion, both painful and ecstatic.Dr. Edward Bach recommends rosa canina flower essence for correcting resignation and apathy. The Vietnamese soldiers took the flowers and roots, dried them, and smoked them with tobacco:After just a few puffs they felt themselves lifted, quietly floating like a wisp of smoke itself floating on the wind. The tasty canina had many wondrous attributes. They could decide what they'd like to dream about, or even blend the dreams, like preparing a wonderful cocktail. The buds, when crushed up and smoked, produce a delicious vapor and cause a mild, pleasant light-headedness.  A tea made from the crushed buds tastes sweet, like pomegranate.
OK: plants, economies, recurring dreams, and long thoughts.When I was a child I had two recurring dreams. Both were not so much dreams but the way dreams ended. In one I ballooned, then became infinitesimal, and then tumbled between the two until I awoke or went back to inky slumber. In the other, the sky went black and the earth went white. Then the floor turned to window blinds, flipped open, and I fell into abyss, only to be jerked back to the moment when the ground spun vertical and disappeared. I fell over and over until I awoke or went back to no dreams. During these frightening, frustrating ends I always saw myself in the third person.I no longer suffer these dream-ends. My sleeping mind has concocted more creative ways to befuddle and my dreams do not recur.---I should have started with plants because Devin left two comments. But what plant should I do? Perhaps Kava Kava, Rosa Canina, Tea, or Kratom?
This is my third blogger blog. I have high hopes. On other sites I share found media, beautiful spam, school work, and brief thoughts. What should grow here?

Ok, ninjasaurus is up.  My blog is on there as well.  I'll be using that from now on.

It was fun Blogger, you served me well, but I'm a movin' on.


I forgot my password to that other blog thinger and the email address I used to register it was destroyed because I never used it (hotmail), so basically that blog is history. Thats OK, I like blogger better from a technical perspective, but I think I have a wider viewership on xanga (note: you can comment anonymously on blogger, look for the little link under the sign-in form).

Anyway, none of that will matter pretty soon, as I'm going to build a nice little community-like website with Brent. The domain name we are going to use is ninjasaurus.net. Its kinda goofy, but I like it :) Anyway, it will be a community with forums and blogs and stuff, and will be used by the Computer Club as a means of unregulated online communication. I'll let you know when that comes up. Because of this new site, I won't be using this little guy (or xanga) anymore.

I've been pretty busy lately with school and cross country. English, Greek, and US History are (right now) my toughest classes. Physics will become harder as the year goes on, most likely.

I have found, however, that as long as I tell myself I can do something or that it is easy, then I do it and it is easy. Attitude is soo incredibly huge when it comes to the quality of life. If you let your mind just take things in, and don't attach yourself to your assumptions or opinions, life becomes much more fluid, peaceful, and fun.

Enjoy your weekend and kick some academic ass next week :)

Doom 3 is amazing, and I highly recommend getting it.  I'm running it at 1024x768 on Medium quality on my Athlon XP 2000+, ATI 9700 Pro, 512mb RAM system, and the framerates are still pretty low.  However, you can't really tell and it looks amazing, so get it and prepare to be creeped out.

Also, I've been running cross country.  I'm getting an excessive amount of exercise (if thats possible) and it feels pretty nice, although I've got sore legs.

Monday is freshman orientation at Rockhurst and I'm going to be there on behalf of the Computer Club, so I basically have to sketch out what we're going to be doing in the next couple days.  I'll have a sign and a handout most likely.  If anyone wants to help I would greatly appreciate it.


Yea, the title is horribly disturbing (for me at least) but anyway, I got back from San Jose on Wednesday the 4th.  It was pretty fun.

This site will be moving.  Very soon.  I'm trying to come up with a good domain name for a private site that would be a destination for the Computer Club.  For some reason rhesus.net sounds good, but I have no idea why.

Anyway, I will let you (meaning all 2.5 of my readers) know once I've decided.  Adios.

I'm leaving for the National Youth Leadership Forum on Technology in San Jose, CA, tomorrow and will be gone until August 4th.  Should be a good time.  Have fun in Kansas City! ;)
 

Sorry I haven't posted in a while, I've been pretty busy. 
 
 I'm currently working on two websites, one for my uncle's woodworking business and the other for the band Sappho Comet. With the site for my uncle's business I've still got a lot of content to get in there, and with the Sappho Comet site I'm waiting for some graphics to work with. It would probably help a ton if I knew how to do graphic design stuff, but right now I really don't have any motivation to learn. 
 
 Yesterday I went to the pool for the first time this summer and swam. This wasn't a fun and games swim though, I was swimming laps. My dad has been swimming for exercise for a long time and since I'm fairly out of shape (but forever skinny ;-P ), it was decided that swimming laps would be a good idea. Swimming laps is tough. My shoulders and thighs are sore from swimming about 300 meters total. I have serious problems with the free style, which seems like the easiest stroke, but for some reason I have trouble breathing without swallowing a fair bit of water. My breast stroke is at least decent. I'm definitely going to keep swimming and get better, but I don't plan on trying out for the Rockhurst team or anything like that. 
 
 Anyway, I'm getting a little bored with computers. Yes, they are nice for communication and such, but I'm not really interested in programming or gaming like I used to be. I still occasionally dabble with Python, but the most technical thing I've done lately is HTML. I did install Gentoo, yet another flavor of Linux that allows an ungodly amount of tinkering, but I got bored with that after I got a desktop up and running. If this trend continues or gets more pronounced I fear for the fate of the computer club. I feel obligated to do more planning and more activities this year, but am having some trouble coming up with things. Maybe I've just hit a slump, and my interest will pick up again during the Tech Forum, propelling me into next year. I sure hope so. 
 

I received my schedule for next year and here's what it looks like:

1. Honors English 3 - Hagedorn
2. Honors Greek 1 - Cusick
3. Pre-AP Math - Martin
4. AP US History - Elmore
5. Church in the Modern World - Featherston
6. Honors Physics - Campisano
7. Honors Spanish 3 - Staihr
(It's the same for both semesters)

It'll be a challenging year, and I'm greatly looking forward to it.  However, I'm trying to relax and do things slowly this summer because during the school year I'll be completely overloaded.  I have been doing some planning for the Computer Club next year and reading my summer reading books, but that's it as far as school-like work goes.  I've also done some odd jobs and computer work, and I suspect they will continue to be part of my summer.  I'm also heading of to California for the Tech Forum at the end of the month, which will hopefully be a great precurser to school and the second year of the Computer Club, which I'm working hard to make much better than the first.  (I need help too, I'd like to get as much feedback and ideas as possible BEFORE starting the school year.  Please email me or IM me.)

There are four books I'm reading for school over the summer.  I've already started on one, Iron and Silk by Mark Salzman.  So far I'm really enjoying it.  In his book Salzman recounts his experiences as a young English teacher in China.  He is an excellent writer and really gives you a feel for Chinese culture.  I had thought about taking up martial arts (aka wushu) before reading this book but now I'm pretty much positive I'd like to start (again), this time in Chinese martial arts.  I need some consistent form of exercise that pushes me to my limits (walking doesn't qualify).  I'd like to find a martial arts school that combines this with Taoist and Buddhist philosophy.

Alan Turing, the father of modern computer science, would have been 92 today.  Unfortunately, in 1952 British authorities arrested him for being homosexual and submitted him to hormone treatments to "cure" him of his homosexuality.  On June 7th, 1954, he committed suicide.

I first posted on this blog one year ago today.  Woo

I promised Belize info, but I lied.  Later, hopefully.  If you really want to hear about it, IM me (n0x1ty) or email me (n0x1ty@gmail.com).  Otherwise I'll post my journal and/or reflections at a later date.

By the way, here are the pictures that Mrs. Newman took.  Enjoy.

I will post more on Belize later, probably on June 18th, which the one year anniversary of this blog (suck on that xangans!).  Also, this blog will probably be moving to my own personal site around the time when next school year starts, but more on that later.  Now its time for some politics.  I swear, this is the last time I'm posting about this ;)

First of all, here are some links that I think should be viewed first.

A Very American Coup
This link basically talks about the modern political role of the military.  Its long but a worthwhile read.

To expand on one of his points, the large amount of US military bases scattered throughout the world.  What exactly is the purpose of these military installations?  Unfortunately, I haven't heard any kind of logical answer.  The US military presence in Saudi Arabia was the initial spark that ignited Osama bin Laden's anti-US jihad.  While bin Laden is an extremist who needs to be apprehended, the anger at the presence of foreign troops in one's country is understandable.  We are not making ourselves any friends, or really even protecting ourselves, with these military bases.  Infantry soldiers, tanks and artillery in foreign lands are not needed to combat terrorism.

Patriot Act II
On the domestic end there are some more recent but even more worrying developments.  After 9/11 Congress passed the controversial Patriot Act, and with many cities and states currently struggle against it, Congress is going in for second round.  This time they are looking to give even more unchecked power to the federal government.  Read the above article for more specific info.

Now, one last link.  

Fourteen Defining Characteristics Of Fascism
I would like to ask you: does that not sound like the modern US under President Bush?

The good thing is, our democratic roots are (supposedly) still intact.  Lets put them to good use in November
I have been gone for a week in the wonderful country of Belize.  I was on a mission trip, mainly helping little kids but in general just experiencing the culture and people of Belize.  I definately want to go back sometime.

I kept a journal while I was there, and am debating whether or not to put it up here.  Regardless, I am going to write something more about my experience, I am just not sure what form it is going to take.  Any suggestions would be appreciated.

I will also post pictures when I get them.


Hello again.  No one expressed much interest in a LAN party, so I guess that won't be happening.

Anyway, yesterday I installed Fedora Core 2, a brand spankin' new release of Linux.  It's got all the latest and greatest software and I must say it is wondrous.  The improvements that have been made over a short period of time are astounding.  Linux is catching up with Windows as a usable operating system for the normal person.  If you are at all interested in Linux or open source software I suggest you download Fedora.

You only need disc 1 and disc 2 for a highly functional operating system, so don't bother with downloading the other discs.  If you are trying out Linux and need any help, feel free to email me or talk to me on AIM.  Installing Fedora is pretty easy, so I think most people should be able to do it on their own.  However, if you are just experimenting I don't suggest using a family computer to do so.  Most of the time installing Linux involves completely deleting everything on your hard-drive, so keep that in mind.

I realize that the vast majority of people don't care about Linux and wouldn't fathom installing it (for now at least), so I'll move on.

I quite enjoyed the Rock Collection.  Adam Meyer's story was my favorite entry.  The only stuff I really didn't like was that found poetry stuff.  For me, art involves creation, and I don't think that randomly taking words out of books and putting them into stanzas and calling it poetry qualifies as creation.

Links:

Wired: Play Games, Be Better Students?
I've noticed a connection with how fast I think and how uber1337 I am at CS or whatever I happen to be playing at the time.  I'm not playing anything at the moment, but I'm reeeeally looking forward to Half-Life 2 and DOOM 3

semacode | real-world hyperlinks
Point your camera phone at a bracket, click, barcode-specific webpage loads

Hugo-Nominated Fiction: 2004
For the sci-fi fans

Wired: Embracing the Art of Hacking

Wired: Designer Virus Stalks HIV
This is a field that really interests me, like all technologies, its potential benefit is roughly equal to its potential danger, thus forcing humans to be more civilized in order to survive

Xbox Media Center Guide
This would be a fun Xbox mod to do with the computer club

And in the humorous category:

McDonald's Asian Pacific Islander Americans
One of the stranger sites I've come across

Blogging! The Latest Cyber Craze!
Local news is a joke

And finally . . .

Overheard at the Free Clinic

I was going to publish a bunch of links about how incredibly ridiculous the Bush administration is, but I think that its now becoming so self-evident that doing so isn't worth my time.  Vote Nader 2004 :P

Finals next week, and then, the void: hopefully I can challenge myself to do something productive between June 8th and July 26th.

Good luck with finals and enjoy your summer :)
Wow, two posts in three days!  Amazing!

Anyway, Blogger has updated their site interface its pretty neato.  I had to change my template to one of the default ones because apparently my old one was causing some problems.  So, I'll be making customizations as we go.  Blogger now has native comment support as well.  Yay!  Not that people comment anyway.

Now, however, I'm giving you incentive to comment.  I'm thinking about having a LAN Party at my house sometime on the week of finals.  What's your opinion on the idea?  When do you think would be the best time to have it?  Leave a comment and let me know.

Here are some links as well.

Changing filenames on p2p networks brings interesting results
I've shown this to a few people already and its a little dated, but still funny

The End of the World
This is a hilarious flash movie.  Enjoy.

Ah, only two weeks left of school.  I think I'll miss school.  Yes, I know it sounds weird, but over the course of the year I get more and more efficient, learn better and enjoy school more.  Call me a geek but I like learning things and exploring ideas and concepts, so school ending will be kind of mellowing for me.  However, after sleeping for a couple days straight, I'll start to do stuff on my own.  During the school year I always think of cool stuff that I want to do but don't have time to because of school.  Summer is a time to do those things.  I'm hoping the transition into summer will go smoothly, as I'm starting some of my projects now.  Since I've got a license I won't be quite as anti-social this summer either, which is a very good thing.  Also, I need to find a way to exercise during the summer because I'll no longer be walking home from school.

I've started programming in Python again and it is very enjoyable.  I've been writing and perfecting some little scripts that help make my life a little easier, like one that updates the computer club site automatically over FTP.  Over the summer I hope to make a program or two that is useful to other people as well.  Maybe I'll post some interesting code stuff on here as well.

Speaking of the computer club, I've got high hopes for next year.  I think we can step it up and do a lot of cool things.  I'm also thinking about having a LAN party at my house on the week of finals, so if you're interested, leave a comment.

Also, I'm beta testing Gmail right now and would enjoy some emails.  Send me a message at n0x1ty@gmail.com.  Also, I can hook you up with a Gmail beta account if you want, so email me at the aforementioned address if that interests you.

Adios
Sorry I haven't updated for so long, I've been enjoying the spring weather and lazing around.

I've given up constantly bitching and criticizing and just started doing stuff.  I started walking home a couple weeks ago and I really enjoy that.  There are so many benefits of just getting that 45 minutes or so of exercise a day.  Plus, it gives me time to think.

I've also been playing Knights of the Old Republic for PC and it definitely deserves the Game of the Year honors it got from several big gaming sites as it is an awesome game.  If you like Star Wars and/or RPGs this is a must have, and even people who normally don't play those games should enjoy it.

Playing KOTOR has got me thinking about the underlying code of the game, mainly because I'm currently taking Visual Basic class in school and have learned Python and some Perl.  Visual Basic class is incredibly easy and I personally don't think VB is a very well designed language, but Mr. McEniry is a cool guy (gotta love the mullet and "acid trip" program) and I can do other homework in class, so it balances out.  Anyway, I thought I might write a game myself, starting out with a simple little "interactive fiction" command-line game.  I'm planning on coding in Python, as it seems to be the most powerful and simple language I am familiar with.

As far as the Computer Club goes, we are finished with actual work for the year and have been given money to fund a little end-of-the-year party.  I need to decide what the hell we're going to do, so any suggestions would be more than welcome.  I was thinking about calling a meeting but am not sure about the turn-out I'll get.  Maybe putting "planning the end-of-the-year party" in the announcement will get people there.  Check out the link to the left for more info on our plans for the future.

I have like 20 emails from myself that are full of links (when on windows for gaming I use my hotmail account to send my computer club account links para bloggage).  I will probably post those sometime soon, or incorporate them into some kind of side-bar thinger.

Have a great rest of the school year.

Hello, I am back from my Spring Break excursion.  It was fun.  I hope you had an enjoyable Spring Break as well.

I got to New York in a bit of a roundabout way, but that's alright.  On Saturday the 13th we drove to Pagosa Springs, Colorado.  It was about a 13 hour drive.  Bleh.  The house we stayed in was amazingly awesome.  It had a cool view of the mountains and a neat little loft where I slept.  

Sunday was my birthday.  I got two books on Albert Einstein (see previous post), a bunch of stuff to paint with (yay), and Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic (its a video game ya know).  I won't be able to enjoy any of that until after this week, but more on that later.

Monday was a travel day.  My dad, my mom and I drove to Durango, Colorado, where my dad and I got on a plane to Phoenix, Arizona.  Then we boarded a plane from phoenix to New York City.  We landed in JFK airport in the early evening.

We stayed in a hotel just to the southwest of Central Park.  It was pretty non-descript, nothing fancy, just two beds, a television and a bathroom.

Overall we didn't do everything we planned, but that's alright.  The first day we went to the Met(ropoliton Museum of Art).  Being weird old me, I enjoyed the modern art quite a bit.  Everything else was alright.  Some of the Buddhist art was kinda neato.

Second day we visited Columbia University, purposely avoiding the St. Patrick's Day parade, which is the biggest in the world.  Then we went to the Natural History Museum for a while.

Next day we went back to the Natural History Museum.  I enjoyed the dinosaurs.  Then we went to the Empire State Building, Grand Central Terminal and St. Patrick's Cathedral.

All of the days we walked and rode the bus a bunch.  The thing that struck me about NYC was just the diversity and number of people.  Any hidden fantasies of living in The Truman Show were shattered.  I saw tons of European tourists (the Euro is kicking the dollars ass right now) including German, Spanish, French, Scandinavian, and many British and Irish people.  Irish people came from Ireland to NYC for the St. Patrick's Day parade.  Insane.  Overall very cool experience.

One thing that surprised me was how safe the city was.  Often on the bus I saw kids, probably in 5th grade or so, riding home from school by there selves.  At one little diner we stopped by there was a group of three kids who looked about 13 sitting by themselves talking about hobbits.  I guess it shouldn't have surprised me, but just the fact that kids can walk around the streets of NYC at night by themselves and they are perfectly fine just kinda made me say "hmm."  New York City would be a fascinating place to grow up (and live, at any age, for that matter).

Unfortunately I did not see a Broadway show or visit Ground Zero :(  I did talk to a guy who was part of an NYPD counter-terrorist unit who was holding an M4.  Weee.

I hope everyone else had a fun and relaxing Spring Break.
Hey!  I have gotten a total of 16 hours of sleep in the last 96 hours.  Woo woo.  Yay for delirium!  I got home from school today (yesterday now I guess) at 3 and slept until 9, then got up and completely started over (for the second time) on my short story.  I think my story is funny.  Its a social satire making fun of the perpetually frightened people of suburbia.  It is good but probably not as good as it could be.  I emailed the final product to Mr. Wick at 2:15 AM.  Aieeeeeeee.  Its 5 in the morning!

In about an hour I will leave to go to Colorado con mi familia.  I will spend a day there and then my dad and I will fly to New York City.  Yipee.  I plan on seeing a Broadway show, the National Museum of Natural History (yay science) and the Met(ropoliton Museum of Art), among other things.  Should be FUN STUFF.

Tomorrow, the 14th, is my birthday.  I have the geekiest birthday ever.  Not only is it Pi day (3.14 . . . ) but it is also the birthday of Albert Einstein.  And me!  Wooo!  It is also Steak and BJ day.   Hahahahahaha weee.
Hola.  I was recently selected to be Juror Three in Twelve Angry Men.  Its a big part and I am admittidly nervous about it but I'm confident that I can do a good job.  Its an awesome script and Tim is directing, so I think it will turn out really well.  I just have a lot of work to do.  I play a guy who is  ignorant and angry and I get to scream and yell and make sarcastic comments.  There are just a lot of them to memorize.

I seem to do better in nearly everything when I have way too much shit going on.  I guess I like to be challenged.

A true story about a four-year old kid and the internet
What a cool story.  Shows why computers are GOOD.  They teach kids HOW to learn, which school traditionally does not.  Too many kids in our country don't know how to learn.  Woo for technology.

A former teacher of GWB talks about his policies and views

On Fundamentalist Christians
I laughed my ass off when I first read this.  Very insulting, just the way I like it.  If you hold any strong Christian (or Jewish or Muslim) beliefs, read at your own risk.  Also, if you can get past the insults, he makes some very very good points.  Definately check out the comments as well, as others make some good points.  My favorite response is to the argument that homosexuality is "not natural."  Its very interesting ;-)

I took one of those quizilla quiz things because I was bored:


 Which Personality Disorder Do You Have?

lol :)  After reading that pic I had this image of me in a black trench coat.  I was walking down a dark street in a cobblestone city, a cramped medieval quarter of some European metropolis, with confusing, winding and narrow roads.  A priest came towards me, and when he saw me he snatched a crucifix out of his pocket and started hitting me with it.  I then took out a large broadsword and sliced him into tiny pieces.

OK so maybe I didn't have that image right when I read it, but I did have one of someone seeing me and running into a house real quick and grabbing a crucifix and praying.  That was just made up off the top of my head because I'm a complete lunatic.


Last night I was laying in my bed, listening to Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band by the Beatles (a wonderful album I must say), and I think I wouldn't mind doing that for around a week.  As of late I am having an extremely difficult time motivating myself to do schoolwork.  Its not that I don't do it, because I do, its just that I don't do it until the very last minute, which lends itself to even less sleep than I get anyways, which is not that much.  I am a night owl and like to go to bed late, as in somewhere between 12 and 2, normally closer to 2.  And of course I sleep forever, until 3 if my parents will let me.  I am just generally tired.  Arg.

I just had an idea for a club called the Melee Club.  Basically you get a bunch of people with heavily padded weapons to beat on each other in some fun, physical games.  It was inspired by this club at a college that just sent me something in the mail.

This week we are building our computer for the Rockhurst Auction at the Computer Club.  Come up to room 317 if you want to watch or help.  I'm going to be explaining what the different parts do and how they go into the computer, so if you're interested in that come on by.  Also, speaking of the computer club, we need to have another LAN involving UT2004, and soon.  The demo is out now, so it wouldn't require anyone to buy anything, just some time to download.  Its really easy to pick up and incredibly fun.  We'd be playing the Onslaught mode mostly, which is an intense but incredibly fun tactical team-play mode involving some cool vehicles.

Yes, I realize it doesn't sound like I'm tired, but believe me, I am.  Alright, on to the links:

The EFF has proposed a way to compensate artists while still allowing file-sharing.  The proposal is $5 a month for completely unhindered sharing.  An interesting proposal, but it doesn't seem like the RIAA wants anything to do with it.

"Everyone who creates anything is a hacker."  So says El Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofia en Madrid.  Wired has an interesting feature on the museum's Hackers: Art of Abstraction exhibit.

Popular Science: Mind Over Machine.  All intelligent carbon-based life-forms interested in the future are required to read this article by decree of Minitrue.  But seriously, this article is quite possibly the most interesting piece I have read in a very long time.  It talks about the recent breakthroughs by Duke scientists that now allow a monkey to control a robotic arm simply by thinking.  Amazingly interesting.

And for a lighter, less mentally taxing, and very enjoyable link: Goodle
Ah, if only
I just had the weirdest, most intriguing experience.  I guess that happens when you sleep very little over the course of four nights, though.  Anyway, I was on the toilet and I just like completely zoned out, like my mind disconnected from my body and I just sat there in a state of stupor.  I gradually came back to "consciousness," deliberately stopping at certain states of mind because I enjoyed them.  One I kinda hovered around for a while, it was like my brain was being submerged in warm water while the rest of my body remained in the "real world."  I eventually realized what I looked like - my jaw was totally slack, my eyes not fully open but by no means closed, as I could still see the wall, it was all just blurring together.  I was hunched in a position where the toilet seat supported my back but I still leaned over pretty far.  I must have looked humorous or scary, whatever your pleasure, as Col. Ptasnik would say.  Anyway, it renewed my interest in gaining complete control over my body, my moods, my feelings, so I think I'm going to start looking at Zen (again).  I want to become a super-user on my system, have root access to my body, meaning complete and total control over anything and everything that can be controlled by my brain.  An interesting and fun little experiment me thinks.  This idea comes partly from this experience, as well as from the short story 0wnz0red and my previous forays into Buddhist thought.

Pretty psychedelic - woo woo

*edit* I put in the wrong thinger for the comment system, but I fixed it.  The old ones are gone, sorry.  Good thing I spotted that one fairly early though.  Adios
"The best proof that there's intelligent life in the universe is that it hasn't come here."

"Religion is the most malevolent of all mind viruses."

Two choice quotes from Arthur C. Clarke, sci-fi writer, most famous for 2001: A Space Odyssey
Read an entire interview

Growing Nerve Cells on Silicon
This is pretty awesome.  I hope its got some meat to it.

Know someone who uses an electric razor?  Apparently, that person could be subject to brain damage.  We are obviously not talking about instant retardation here, but it seemed like something important enough to pass along.

Bush Distorts Science
No shit!

The Science of Love
A bit late for Valentine's Day, but interesting nonetheless

Half of all languages face extinction this century.
Sad, culturally and also because you can learn so much about human cognition (is that a word?) through studying languages.

woo woo, another 4 day week coming up, but I've still got the whole weekend to chill out.  yay
Someday I'll actually post something with meat to it, but right now, enjoy the links
I've got some pretty cool links for ya today:

Did you ever wonder what it would be like to pop a water balloon in space?
Three cool videos of zero g water balloon poppage.  American tax dollars at work 

Not so happy Valentine's day in Iraq
This is a pretty heart-wrenching story from a blogger I really enjoy reading.  Her posts are generally really long but she really digs into her culture and gives you a great sense of what it is like to live in Iraq, focusing on war-time experiences.  A definite must-read blog for anyone who wants to be informed.

NY Times - French Civil Solidarity Pact
This French alternative to marriage should have the "Defense of marriage" fundies in America going insano.  Basically it gives couples the same legal rights as married couples without "committing them to be together forever."  Weee for progress.

Same-Sex Family Values
An interesting article from Salon

The Unreal Tournament 2004 demo was just released, if that's your cup of tea.  I've been playing it a bit for the last couple days and I really enjoy the new Onslaught mode.  Its pretty strategic, I don't want to waste our time typing up a bad explanation of it, but I will say that it involves five different vehicles and is hella fun because it takes so teamplay strategery to win.  For more information on UT2004 check out Gamespy's massive feature.  More articles and previews and stuff than you can shake a stick at.

Salon - 0wnz0red
An awesome short story that has apparently been nominated for a Nebula award.  Definately read this if you enjoy speculative sci-fi and the like.  READ IT!

No school on monday, woo, I have two 4 day weeks in a row.  Enjoy
Google logo Photoshoppage contest
Some great funny google logos there, and if you want check out the the official google holiday logos.

Valentine's Day is tomorrow.  And what am I doing?  Working from 12:30 - 6 up at Cure' gym.  If you love me come up and say hi.  I doubt anyone will but whatever.  I haven't had anything close to a girlfriend for a long while, so I'll be spending the rest of Valentine's day alone or with family.  I guess I'm just really boring or something :-/

I really need to go to sleep earlier.  It seems like during the day I am completely out of it.  The only thing that saves me is blind right-brain instinct.  There is way too much stuff I need/want to do, plus all the time that I want to spend just doing nothing, thinking and what-not.  *sigh*

Mr. Tran and I ordered parts for the computer for the auction today after school.  We're picking up the monitor, case and speakers at MicroCenter on Monday at 11 AM.  You can go if you feel so inclined.

Three day weekends are wonderful.  Can you say 'sleep'?
The title says it all.  I am totally and officially "out of it"

Here are some links I found interesting:

The Virus Underground- NY Times (free registration required)
This is an excellent and in-depth article, a must-read for anyone interested

Blaming the Dark Side of Gaming- An intelligent look at whether violent games cause crime (hint: they don't)

I despise you and I hate your music- If you feel like having your musical tastes insulted in a humourous manor, check this out

Complexification | Buddha.Brot- we like computer-generated geometrically sweet images that look like da Buddha :)

Race only skin deep- woo for the schools of Californiyay, an excellent school activity confronting science and social issues :)

Mozilla Firefox 0.8- A new version of Firebird, 0.8, with a new name, Firefox, has been released.  Download it now, its the best browser for Windows

The Economist talks about Astrophysics and stuff

Have a good day
n0x1ty's Xanga Site

I decided to put my little thoughts on that whole deal there, I don't know why, probably because I thought it might reach a larger audience.

 I am late. Walking from the bus stop, towards Union Station, hungover, starving, I fear I will miss my ride home to Kansas City. Walk fast. I woke up in a strange bed. Now I wear a backpack stuffed to the seams and smell like unwashed sex. I pass a McDonald's and two greeters stand outside the door. I expect them to hail me for a breakfast sandwich. I decide if they do I will go in and get something and run. They don't; just look at me. Once I am past, glad for the moment that I will not be eating their fast food on a hungover stomach, one of them says — Looks like a baby John Lennon! — and I smile and laugh to myself. Then I'm just hungry again.



[Que telling of Hero Movie script in collaborative dialog form between J, C, and M eventually bringing in projectionist&amp;/concessions babe through J &amp; C's supporting M. Include M's outline of hero movie formula on prompt from J]

Screaming (JIZZ. IN. MY. PANTS). She turns around and they all look towards the ticket booths, where people start throwing up their hands.

“GET DOWN,” they hear over the din.

Most everybody does, including Matthew and the woman. Justin freezes, eyes fixed on the automatic rifle held by a masked man. His eyes glaze over. He ducks behind the podium.

“You, come with me.”

Matthew looks at Justin. Justin’s shaking, wide-eyed, curled up, his back to the podium.

“I gotta get out of here,” Justin says.

“What?”

Justin gets up and starts running down a hallway towards an exit. Matthew hesitates, glancing back, and then follows Justin, running stooped. He hears a shout behind him and a bullet throws a bit of the wall at the back of his head.

In the parking garage just outside, Matthew finds Justin sitting in his running car with the radio on, taking deep breaths. Matthew opens the passenger side door.

“Justin, are you all right?”

Justin turns the music down.

“Sit,” he says.

Matthew gets in and closes the door.

“Guns and bullets bring back bad memories,” Justin says.

They sit silent for a bit. They hear sirens in the distance.

“Do you wanna talk about it?” Matthew asks.

“I hope that girl’s all right,” Justin says.

“Yeah,” says Matthew. “Shouldn’t we get out of here?”

“Nah, the cops will want witness statements.”

“You don’t think there won’t be plenty of people still in the lobby to give statements?”

“I guess. I’m worried about that girl, though.”

“Why are you so hung up on this girl? You don’t even know her.”

“I dunno, but we’ll probably have to go back to work once this is all sorted out.”

“What? Are you kidding?”

Justin stares out the windshield and turns up the music.

“Whatever,” Matthew says, “I’m going home.”

Matthew gets out of the car and starts walking back towards the exit.

The exit door opens and the five armed, masked men come out, dragging hostages with them. Matthew starts. Justin turns his head towards the noise and movement. One of the hostages is his girl. Matthew runs and dives behind a parked car.

Justin revs the engine of his car and shifts into reverse. The robbers look towards Justin and shout. Justin pulls out to face them. His girl smacks her distracted captor with her purse. The other hostages follow her lead and try to disarm their captors. Justin speeds towards them. A shot echoes.

Justin approaches fast. The struggle starts to shift to make room for the car. She hugs her captor and falls on him. She gets up fast and Justin’s tire runs over her captor’s neck. The car hits another captor and the captor’s head hits the windshield.

Justin stops and the captor rolls off his hood. The sirens are much louder now. He hears the shouts of police. He gets out of his car.

“There’s blood on my new rims,” he says.

“It was worth it though, wasn’t it?” Justin stares at his car. “I’m Clare, by the way.”

“Justin,” he says, still looking at his car.

“Justin. Thanks.”

“Yeah,” he says, too loud. “I don’t know if insurance will cover this. You wanna go get some pizza?”

“Yeah, I’d like that.”

Matthew runs up, out of breath.

“Holy shit. Uh, hi, I’m Matthew,” he says nervously.

“Matthew,” Justin says, “no girl is out of your league; don’t let any of ‘em make you think that.”
An essay on A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man by James Joyce.  Turned in on 9/5/08 and (unfortunately) titled "Fishing in the Stream of Consciousness."
 
– His thinking was a dusk of doubt and selfmistrust, lit up at moments by the lightnings of intuition, but lightnings of so clear a splendour that in those moments the world perished about his feet as if it had been fire consumed: – (Joyce 151-2)
 There is a conscious process involved in writing the self.  James Joyce, in A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, uses an evolving style meant to evoke the internal dialogue of a developing artist.  Stephen revisits and revises his own story as the novel progresses.  Each episode contains more meta-text, or abstract, self-referential text about text.  Through the meta-text we see how Stephen’s memories and self-conception change over time.
 The first signs of Stephen’s revisionary self-consciousness can be seen in chapter two, when Stephen is writing a poem for Ellen.  After writing a dedication he remembers how he tried to write a poem after the Christmas dinner argument recounted in chapter one.  The result was only a list of names and addresses of his classmates.  He fears he will fail again.  However, “by dint of brooding on the incident, he thought himself into confidence.  During this process all those elements which he deemed common and insignificant fell out of the scene” (59).  This narration refers to Stephen in the third person, so this description could itself be revisionist.  Nevertheless, this explanation of Stephen’s success fleshes out the process of constructing meta-text.  
 An encounter with Ellen precedes his attempt at poetry.  The passage includes many details about the circumstances of their meeting and their conversation.  These details are fresh in Stephen’s memory, but “[t]he verses only told of the night and the balmy breeze and the maiden lustre of the moon.”  He records only details which convey the emotion he wished to express – “Some undefined sorrow” (59).  Somehow, by mulling over a past incident, Stephen is able to cut out excess details and pinpoint those relevant to his emotions.  
 The specific past incident was his attempt to write a poem about Parnell, the Irish revolutionary.  The inspiration in that case was the argument between his father, Dante and Mr. Casey over politics and religion at Christmas dinner.  The last line of that episode reads: “Stephen, raising his terrorstricken face, saw that his father’s eyes were full of tears” (32).  Judging from this line, something similar to the undefined sorrow which afflicted Stephen and infected his poem may have been present following the incident at the dinner table.
 This time, though, Stephen succeeds in writing a poem, capturing an undefined sorrow.  The process that allowed him to succeed was not conscious.  He recalls that during his failed attempt at poetry “his brain had then refused to grapple with the theme.”  This second time, however, he falls “into a day dream” (59) in which he confronts his previous failure.  While this is happening at the forefront of his mind, the confidence necessary to write the poem at hand grows and the pertinent details become clear.  The prime verb which started this process is “fell,” implying an internal movement outside his control.
 Another word for an interior shift beyond control is epiphany.  Epiphanies simply happen, set off by some seemingly insignificant detail.  The aforementioned epiphany was not terribly life-changing, resulting only in a poem.  However, its structure is common to all Stephen’s epiphanies – an impasse, followed by a foray into the mental realm, resulting in a transcendence that removes the barrier or burden at the root of the impasse.  
 The quote that begins this paper expresses the structure of epiphany in the language of an older, college-age Stephen.  The “doubt and selfmistrust” that permeate his mind reflect the impasses he encounters as he forges his aesthetic philosophy, becoming more independent of the Roman Catholic ideas which shaped him.  The “lightnings of intuition,” like his falls into daydream, are neither expected nor planned.  Though the world perish about him, become a hell through guilt or fill with revelatory impassioning hallucinations, Stephen returns to the world revitalized.
 This process bears remarkable similarity to the resurrection story that is the foundation of Roman Catholicism and other Christian faiths.  This may explain why Stephen grows away from the Catholic church, though his apparent agnosticism is still informed by its teachings.  When asked to sign a petition per pax universalis, Stephen refuses, saying the portrait of the Tsar adorning the table looks like “a besotted Christ” (167).  In explaining his aesthetic philosophy he quotes Aquinas.  But he refuses to call himself a Catholic, or even a Christian.  Through his epiphanies Stephen has had the experience of metaphysical resurrection.  He seems to have moved from the comfortable confines of the Catholic community to a lonely, independent faith in the revelatory power of everyday beauty.
 Each epiphany, though different, involves a revising of his self-conception and personal narrative.  While the extent to which Stephen Dedalus is based on James Joyce’s life is debatable, the layers of meta-text suggest that Dedalus is quite removed from Joyce.  By the time Stephen begins actively journaling at the end of the book, his epiphanies have become less dramatic, more “like drops of water in a fountain falling softly in the brimming bowl” (49).
Works Cited
Joyce, James. A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. New York: Barnes &amp; Noble, 1999.
The process of remembering affects the content of the resulting memory.  Richard Rodriguez, in his autobiography Hunger of Memory, constructs his life narrative within the context of his nostalgia as informed by his recently completed formal education.  The style of the resulting prose reflects his processual method of remembering.

 Some stylistic threads that run throughout the book shed light on his process.  Parenthetical phrases show up on every page, like thoughts bubbling into the flow of his writing.  This seems to indicate that some details just pop into his head unannounced and are so good that he must include them.  At times they take the form of Richard directly commenting on what he has written.  Others are details, quotes, or questions.  Whether or not these spontaneous additions are creations of his own mind or genuine fragments of past experiences, however, is often unclear.

 His earliest memories must be the most altered.  Remembering with family members, recalling incidents innumerable times, altering small details to more poetically fit the memory into a larger narrative: these are only a few of the ways childhood memories evolve over time.  Richard, at least seems conscious of this, and makes no strong claims as to the accuracy of his memories.  This can be seen in choices Richard makes such as using “I’d” in the story about the daily transition between public and private worlds as a small child (15-6).  Thrice, on page 16, the word “would” is specifically used, but for the rest of the passage, he uses the more vague and informal “I’d.”  Would implies a general, recurring experience -- not a specific incident.  And by using an informal contraction, Richard communicates that this blueprint for past incidents has been filtered through time and experience.

 One of the most consciously constructed filters through which Richard remembers his past is Richard Hoggart's idea of the scholarship boy.  In his last year of graduate school, enveloped in the silence of the British Museum, Richard begins to read journals and monographs on education, looking for descriptions of students like himself.  Hoggart's scholarship boy resonates with his boyhood memories and he spends much of the second chapter examining his experiences through this frame.  Richard discusses the abstract concept of the scholarship boy in the third person, carefully noting the differences between the scholarship boy of Hoggart’s prose and the boyhood self of his memories.  He starts each numbered section of chapter two with a Hoggart quote or reference.  Then, he moves to a more direct discussion of his experience -- talking about his relationship to his teachers, parents, studies and, finally, his writing.

 Instead of dredging up minutia from his memories and constructing a narrative, as Joyce does in Portrait, Richard writes self-consciously from his present circumstances.  While both Joyce and Rodriguez identify strongly with those they read, Richard has a stronger taste for the academic than the poetic.  He felt unable “to write anything but sentences that were overly cautious, timid, strained brittle under the heavy weight of footnotes and qualifications” when writing his dissertation (76).  Joyce seems to have the opposite sensibilities, more easily writing passages full of daring and passion.  Though Richard’s writing style was forged through the rigors of academia, he manages to move beyond the style he finds himself writing in as a graduate student.  In Hunger, he uses one line paragraphs, exclamations, short declarative statements, italics and parentheticals that might be out of place in an academic treatise.

 The politics of academia, however, still feature noticeably in his reflections.  Joyce manages to stay away from taking political stands, preferring poetic distance.  Richard consciously comments on political matters, taking clear stands on two relevant issues -- bilingual education and affirmative action.  Joyce’s metaphor-laden, stream-of-consciousness style does not lend itself to political commentary, though the political conflicts of his time show up in his work.  Rather, Joyce’s work itself is a political statement.  He injects a talented Irish voice into the Western canon, bringing a previously marginalized group into the mainstream while still maintaining an Irish identity.  Richard, like Joyce, uses the language of Anglo-Saxon conquerers to tell his story.  His is an assimilated outsider’s voice: having “stolen their books,” he enters his own experience and reflections into the Western discourse (1).

 Thus, Richard blends styles and reconstructs his past to engage and enter into a certain tradition.  Like Joyce before him, he has taken many stylistic threads from his readings and woven them together to form a distinct voice.  In order to feed his nostalgia, he synthesized what he gained through his education into a work that reconnects him with what he has lost.  Through this process he must confront contentious political issues and deal with stifling loneliness.  But he has filled a void, satisfied his hunger.  The melancholic ending to the book, however, indicates that he knows a new hunger has already begun to arise.
Works Cited

Rodriguez, Richard. Hunger of Memory: The Education of Richard Rodriguez. New York: Bantam, 2004.
— Shannon didn’t even scream.  Her mouth was wide open, and she just breathed the flames in.  Her glasses went opaque, her eyes vanished, and all around her skull her fine hair stood up in a crown of burning glory — (Allison 201)

 This is a gruesome, yet beautiful passage.  Though the image it evokes may make the reader sick, it also inspires awe with the simple phrase “in a crown of burning glory.”  This seems a fitting image for the death of Shannon Pearl -- an albino, a hateful outcast, yet an angel to her obsessive parents.  The account of this tragedy illustrates how Dorothy Allison turns meaningless suffering into meaningful narrative, exercising agency over her painful past by integrating intrusive traumatic memories into a novel with great aesthetic merit.

 For Bone, Allison’s fictional counterpart, Shannon’s dramatic death must have been particularly painful.  She is her first close friend, and there is evidence that their relationship is more than platonic.  Particularly, Allison describes a vaguely sexual encounter underneath the stage at a gospel show which ends in Bone vomiting.  Shannon puts her arms around Bone and rocks her head back and forth.  Bone starts to feel sick from the smell of Shannon’s hair, suggesting their faces are close together.  Twice, while Bone is trying to escape from Shannon, Allison begins a paragraph with “Uh uh uh” without attributing it to anyone.  When Bone starts vomiting Shannon is “gasping and giggling” (164).

 Bone’s disgust quickly shifts subjects.  After Bone and Shannon have crawled out from under the stage, a singer sees Shannon and calls her the “ugliest thing” he has “ever seen” (165).  Bone unleashes a flurry of obscenities and insults upon him in furious retaliation.  After Mrs. Pearl intervenes and defuses the situation, Bone reaches for Shannon’s hand but is rejected.  After Allison reflects on their shared hatred, the scene ends with Shannon whispering “Someday” and Bone replying in kind (167).

 But Shannon dies before she and Bone can get their revenge and/or grow more intimate.  Though they have a nasty falling-out, Bone accepts an invitation to a Pearl family barbeque after an extended period of silence.  She realizes that she “was the only friend Shannon Pearl had in the world” when she sees Shannon at her family get-together, alone and occasionally insulted by her cousins (199).  Remembering “the way I’d loved her stubborn pride, the righteous rage she turned on her tormentors,” Bone recognizes Shannon as “the kind of monster I could understand” (200).  

 Before describing Shannon’s death, Allison describes the scene just after Shannon’s fiery demise.  With a line of white space she communicates how fast it happened, skipping from jumping the fence to being questioned by the Sheriff and yelled at by Shannon’s mother.  She quickly returns to the specifics of Shannon’s death, and describes it step-by-step.  She breaks what must have taken thirty seconds into three paragraphs, sparing the reader, and herself, no detail.

 The random, freak accident that takes Shannon’s life becomes meaningful through what Bone learns afterwards.  Most directly, though, she learns about suffering and loss.  Seeing Mrs. Pearl’s grief makes her realize that everyone suffers, not just the marginalized.  Mrs. Pearl’s moan is “the purest gospel, a song of absolute hopeless grief” (203).  Realizing these painful emotions are universal, her “hardheaded anger” dissipates.  Now able to feel empathy, Mrs. Pearl’s skewed vision of her daughter as “an angel of the Lord” instructs her on the subjectivity of experience (202).  Stories can be told many different ways -- based on different assumptions and perspectives.  For a young writer, this realization is paramount.

 Having relived her experiences and related them, if obliquely, to her current situation, Allison makes her past pain meaningful.  She does this through the process of making her experiences accessible and meaningful to the reader.  This makes her writing therapeutic.  Sharing past experience with others, finding the universal appeal of her story, Allison brings the pain out of the murk of her consciousness and into the light of public discourse.

 For Bone, though, the lesson doesn’t sink in right away.  While sharing in grief at Shannon’s funeral assuages her pain temporarily, it does not expunge the hate that burns inside her.  Continued frustrations due to class tension and restrictive gender roles make the hate instilled by Glen’s abuse color her entire view of the world.  Raylene recognizes Bone’s negative outlook and reproves her for it, while at the same time recognizing the budding writer.  “You’re making up stories about those people,” she says.  “Look at it from the other side for a while.  Maybe you won’t be glaring at people so much” (262).

 This lesson does sink in, to an extent, within the novel.  After Glen rapes Bone and Anney displays compassion for the insane Glen in the aftermath, propelling Bone into unconsciousness, the subjectivity of experience beings to sink in.  She sees from her Mama’s perspective and realizes that Anney will go back to Glen.  She may not understand why, but she knows what it means for her.  Looking at her situation through her mother’s eyes, and contrasting it with her own interests, she is able to make her first adult decision: to live with Raylene.
Works Cited

Allison, Dorothy. Bastard Out of Carolina. New York: Plume, 1993.
When inside he felt there must be snakes all about him, ready to strike.  It seemed he could see and feel them there, waiting tensely in coil.  In the dark he imagined long white fangs ready to sink into his neck, his side, his legs.  He wanted to come out, but kept still.  Shucks, he told himself, ef there wuz any snakes in here they sho woulda done bit me by now.  Some of his fear left, and he relaxed (Wright 264).
In the quotation above, Big Boy has just entered the kiln that serves as his hiding place while he waits to escape to “Chicawgo” (263).  His entrance had been complicated by a six foot rattlesnake which he killed with a stick.  This passage shows the resulting paranoia.  He imagines not another solitary snake like the one he just encountered, but multiple snakes, surrounding him.  His frightened mind fills in the sensory details.

 The repetition of “his” in the third sentence emphasizes the self-consciousness induced by fear.  Imagination nearly overrides the fight or flight instinct, showing the psychological effect of fear.  Internal dialog checks his imagination.  Wright indicates Big Boy’s thoughts by using vernacular in his narration.  “Ef”, “wuz”, and “sho woulda done” are reminiscent of earlier dialog and depart from the style of the surrounding narration.

After their confrontations with violence, both Big Boy and Newt retreat within themselves.  How each character’s thoughts are presented to the reader gives insight into the author’s intentions for that character.  Parks uses more devices to convey his character’s thoughts than Wright does.  By this measure, Newt’s inner life is better developed than Big Boy’s.

 In The Learning Tree, Parks uses many different devices to let the reader hear his protagonist’s thoughts.  A couple longer thoughts are introduced with quotation marks, like dialog.  Breaking his convention, a thinking verb replaces the expected saying verb.  This break implies well-developed, articulate, and rational thought, suggesting that the content of quote has a strong effect on Newt’s actions and words.

 More often, Parks simply describes Newt’s internal landscape.  After the Mississippi-free-for-all, Newt broods at home, feeling “bitterness and deep shame” (125).  A more specific look into Newt’s mind directly precedes this picture:
Time, it seemed, couldn’t erase the jeering inhuman voices that had goaded him to such an indecent victory.  [. . .] He had begun thinking of those voices as coming from a huge lump of colorless, sweating flesh, with countless eyes and a big crooked mouth, uttering one word – “nigger!”  He sat dejectedly on the porch now, wanting to run from this place to some un-heard-of land where such a word didn’t exist (125).
Here, Newt’s mind also fills in sensory details to fit his emotions.  Like Big Boy, Newt wants to run and escape, but stays put.  He is helpless in his fear, and cannot relax.  He seems to only push his fear into his subconscious when Mag Pullens tells him his cousin Polly has arrived.  Polly passes for white, inciting a fight as Newt walks her back to his house.  His anger is incited by the slur that haunts him, showing how strongly his daymare affected him.

 Another device Parks uses is a lengthy, rambling parenthetical.  He uses it after Newt has witnessed Mr. Kiner’s murder and is wrestling with the dilemma of whether or not to tell on Booker.  The steps on the path of his deliberation are linked by ellipses.  Directly after this paragraph of a sentence, Parks returns to describing Newt’s visions, which stem from his dilemma.  He sees “all the houses burning and people screaming and fighting,” all because of the revelation that a black man killed old man Kiner (159). 

 These different devices, then, serve different purposes.  Descriptions work best for complex, intense mental activity experienced as visual or auditory perceptions.  And parenthetical phrases work to convey dramatic inner struggle.

 Wright, on the other hand, doesn’t use such a variety of devices.  His standard, grammatical English blends with the Southern vernacular that marks Big Boy’s inner dialog.  Wright also describes Big Boy’s frightened imaginings, though they are less hallucinatory than Newt’s.  Nevertheless, they are similarly symbolic.

Both convey well the fear of the unseen other, the alien.  Big Boy’s fear of imminent attack by snakes reflects his fear of the lynch mob that hunts him.  And the surreal visions Newt has are his fears come to life in his mind.  Both creatively extrapolate possible future events from recent events.  Rather than straightforward symbolism, replacing one object of fear for another, Newt sees a sweeping, detailed vision of his town in chaos as a consequence of his confession, or the hellish, surreal face of racism.  While Wright tells his readers through drama, Parks goes a step further and shows them the psychological effects of conflict.
Works Cited

Parks, Gordon. The Learning Tree. 1963. New York: Fawcett, 1987.

Wright, Richard. Uncle Tom’s Children.
“Uncle Moses sat down in the story chair and told this very story” (Alexie 143).

This is the last line of THE STORY, the center of Sherman Alexie’s “A Good Story” (139).  Story appears twice in the sentence, which pivots on “the story.”  The name, Uncle Moses, evokes the old stories of the Torah.  Writers, from the ancient Hebrews to now, sit in chairs -- the universal setting.  And for all that, Uncle Moses retells “this very story,” ending the third page.  Hence, a good story recurses -- repeats itself.

A young kid, Arnold, prompts this particular recursion.  He asks old Uncle Moses for “a good story.”  Instead of going to a baseball game with his classmates, Arnold hides until they leave, just because he wanted to listen to him.  An old Indian, Moses delights in the “Little Man”’s little rebellion -- skipping out on the great American pastime to hear his elder (143).  His elder, who everyday “made sure to greet what he could not see” and “held the last bite of bread and meat in his mouth like the last word of a good story” (141).

Uncle Moses is the agent of recursion in THE STORY.  But Alexie himself, called Junior by his mother, tells this story first.  He narrates “A Good Story” in the first person.  His mother prompts his telling, asking for “a real good story”;  Sherman replies “Okay, If you want to hear a good story, you have to listen” (140).  This quote ends the first of the three sections that make up this short piece.  It implicitly instructs the reader to pay close attention.

Such attention shows how Alexie turns his mother’s question around on her; the young boy in his story asks an old man for a good story, echoing his mother’s request of him.  In response, his mother hums a “slow song through her thin lips.”  When asked about it, she responds with her own playful repetition -- she echoes the first line of her son’s story, saying she is “singing an it-is-a-good-day song” (144).

The songs and lips of Winter Santiaga’s world, however, are fast and full.  Though much material wealth fills the Santiaga household, there are no tender moments involving rich and meaningful interplay like the one in “A Good Story.”  Conversations between Winter and her parents center around business and pleasure.  “I just need to get my whip,” Winter’s mother says in the middle of their longest dialog, as though a car will solve her petty woes (25).

Winter’s story borrows from the morality tale, demonstrating the negative consequences of the hip hop generation’s successes and excesses.  Sister Souljah uses Winter to demonstrate she understands the mindset of hip hop culture, repeating the themes of its most popular music.  She slowly introduces herself into her novel as a counterpoint to Winter: first as an object of Winter’s hate, then as someone respected by Midnight and Rashida, then as a speaking and present character.

Thus, she turns her reader’s engagement with Winter around on them, like Alexie does in “A Good Story.”  Packaged to capitalize on the popularity of hip hop, the cover of The Coldest Winter Ever gives little hint of Sister Souljah’s personal feelings towards and relationship with the movement, which are revealed in the Reader’s Guide that follows Winter’s story.  Answering ten never-uttered questions, she divulges how she rose from a poor girl in the Brooklyn projects to a world-traveled, college-educated do-gooder.  Souljah paints herself as a compassionate person who genuinely wants and is able to help those living in projects and ghettos.  “Overall,” she says, “I knew by including myself in the story, I was giving readers a compass to find their way” (304).  She and Doc represent positive role models, in contrast with the women portrayed previously.  Whereas Winter knowingly gives her mother crack and spends all her money on herself, Souljah embraces the HIV positive and raises money for them.  Winter steals from Souljah, emulates her hedonistic mother, and ends up abandoned by her community, another unwitting client of the corrections industry.  A morality tale, through and through.

Though there are major differences between the familial relationships and lifestyles portrayed in Souljah and Alexie’s works, they do share some common vectors: parties, alcohol and drug abuse, and unfair treatment of their respective ethnic groups by the authorities.  With regard to these themes, they do similar cultural work.  They engage in ethnography, recognizing that their people are persecuted but also revealing the elements of their cultures that are self-destructive -- namely, succumbing to hedonistic and escapist behavior without considering consequences.  Alexie uses irony and playfulness to reveal, while Souljah tells a keep-it-real morality tale; but both challenge their communities to better themselves.

“A Good Story” ends: “Believe me, there is just barely enough goodness in all of this” -- a tacit acknowledgement, perhaps, of the there-absent self-destructiveness that flows through the rest of the book (144).  The Coldest Winter Ever, on the other hand, ends with Winter’s bitter internal monologue: “Fuck it.  She’ll learn for herself.  That’s just the way it is” (284).  Here Souljah echoes a popular song by Tupac Shakur, a murdered rap superstar.  Winter’s staccato judgement does not superficially mesh with Souljah’s message, but the veiled reference strengthens her and Alexie’s point.  Whether told from a chair or a mic, a good story repeats.
Written in class on 28 Feb 2009; lightly touched-up.
Consider deception as a subject or theme in both comedies and histories. Who deceives whom? How? Is deception always or usually "wrong"?
Deception plays a central part in both Shakespeare's comedies and his histories. He deceives to allude to the fanciful, hyperreal nature of his plays. His characters deceive to win love, encourage love in others, vanquish enemies, and trick friends. Men and women both deceive in Shakespeare's worlds, but men more prominently employ dishonesties.

In The Taming of the Shrew, Shakespeare begins with a common drunk. Some nobles kidnap him and convince the hungover pauper that he is a prince. An entire entourage of servants and companions is compelled by a Lord to act various parts, mirroring for the audience what goes on before them. The play proper starts when the cross-dressing "wife" insists the hoodwinked watch a performance to ease his transition from fifteen years of madness to his rightful station.

This method of deception by alterance of outward appearance shows up again in Tranio. He mimics his master Lucentio in order to court and bargain for Bianca. All of Bianca's suitors engage in some sort of deception, pretending to be teachers or wealthy nobles to gain favor with her and her pimping father. Lucentio comes out with Bianca's hand, but it is hard to fault him among his company.

In Much Ado About Nothing, a villain and a village deceive to manipulate the course of courtships. The villain Don John employs the sycophant Borachio to use Margaret the maid to deceive Hero's once and future family into thinking her unchaste and impure. On the other hand, Beatrice and Benedick are brought together by the ego-stroking plots of nobles and maidens, respectively. Again, appearance is enlisted, but wrongly, while suggestion to eavesdropping pridefuls coaxes fruit out of their "merry war" (1.1.57).

Falstaff also deceives. He has no rival in deception in Henry IV's first part. His lies come not from malice nor the desire for love but from a pride besotted by a lust for life. Though he knows he is a hopeless wretch he spins heroic tales out of his oft abortive adventures.

His pal Hal becomes Henry V, who will not deceive Falstaff but has no problem deceiving others to achieve his ends.
I translated this passage for the Albert O. Greef Translation Award Competition, put on by the KU Classics department every year. I didn't win but, more importantly, I enjoyed the process.

VI

Philonicus the Thessalian took Bucephalus the horse to Philip to sell for thirteen talents. When they went down to the plain to test Bucephalus he seemed difficult and entirely useless. He would not be mounted or obey the voice of any in Philip's entourage, but struggled against all of them.

Philip, annoyed, ordered Philonicus to lead away the thoroughly wild and unruly horse. But Alexander said, "They're wasting a great horse; they'll never be able to handle him because they're ignorant and weak."

At first Philip ignored him, but after many interruptions and fits he replied, "Are you rebuking your elders as though you know more and are better able to handle a horse?"

"I could definitely handle this horse better than them."

"And if you can't, what will be the penalty for your insolence?"

"By Zeus, I'll pay the price of the horse."

Laughter followed his words. Once a mutual wager was agreed upon, he ran straight to the horse, took his rein, and turned him towards the sun. Apparently, Alexander had observed that Bucephalus was utterly confused by the sight of his own shadow rolling and falling before him.

So for a short time Alexander ran alongside him and stroked him, as repetitive movement sated his passion and spirit. Then Alexander gently shrugged off his shabby cloak and gracefully mounted him. Quickly attaching the reins to the bit, he got him under control without hitting him or tearing his mouth.  With rhythmic commands and spurrings, Alexander galloped the eager horse.

Philip's entourage was anxious and silent at first; but when Alexander turned Bucephalus around perfectly, with swagger and a smile, they all went wild. They say that his father even cried tears of joy. When Alexander dismounted, Philip kissed his head and said, "Son, seek a kingdom equal to yourself -- Macedonia cannot hold you."
When you work with someone who talks all the time about everything, you learn to listen and make the appropriate noises at the appropriate times. That was Matthew’s conclusion, anyway. J and M work as ushers at a movie theater in an upscale shopping district. J talks constantly. Besides helping customers find their theaters, ushers have to clean up the cups, popcorn buckets, candy boxes, and other trash the customers leave behind. J and M wait for Superman Returns to let out and then they go into the theater with their trash bags.

“You see those girls walking out?” J asks.

“Yeah,” says M, “they looked good.”

“Damn fine,” J says. “I haven’t had sex in way too long.”

M opened his mouth as if to speak and looked uncomfortable.

“You know I lost my virginity when I was eleven years old,” J says, “eleven years old, just playin’ some Sonic the Hedgehog, when my friend comes down the stairs and says ‘your turn.’ I went upstairs and --”

“Wait, when you were eleven?”

“Yeah, it wasn’t no big thing. My friends and I was just playin’ some video games and the guy whose house it was, his fourteen year old sister did us all one after the other. Except for her brother, you know.”

“Wow”

“Since I got back from my tours I haven’t had much luck, though. It’s harder to get laid when you live with your mom.”

“...how was your luck in the Middle East?”

“Not great. Had a Japanese girl in Hawaii, when I was on R&amp;R. Met her in a club. I still keep in touch with her, you know. Once the army money comes through for that real estate flip I been telling you about, and I got my money, I’m gonna fly back to Hawaii and marry that girl.”

“Sounds like a plan.”

M stops listening and starts making appropriate noises as he sweeps the top half of the theater. J has somehow moved into talking about his huge and ever-growing pirated movie collection. Probably the Japanese girl got him thinking about anime. M finishes his half before J, as usual.

“You play video games?” J asks.

“I used to play all the time; shooters, mostly.”

“Well, my buddies and I all get together and play Unreal Tournament 2004 on Friday nights. You innerested?”

“I dunno, maybe.”

M starts wheeling the trash can out of the theater. J follows. M stows the trash can in a nook and they go to the lobby. The ticket line is longer than J has ever seen.

“The new Pirates of the Caribbean movie is bringin’ um in.” J says.

“Yeah. I doubt it’s any good but people seem to like it. Sequels normally suck.”

“Yeah, I saw it the day it came out and it wasn’t that great.”

They approach the ticket taker, who is in a motorized wheelchair.

“Can you take the podium while I go get dinner?” he asks.

“Sure,” M says, hesitantly. He and J exchange glances.

Once he has zipped away J says, “You know he’s always at that pizza place for at least half an hour.”

“Yeah I know. I’m sick of cleaning theaters, though.” M tears a ticket and points a customer in the right direction. Now all the customers in the lobby are in line for concessions.

“Check out that girl,” J says, nodding towards a woman paying for her drink. “Ooh she’s thick. Pretty face, too.” J stares.

M runs a hand through his shiny black hair and says, “Yeah, I guess so.”

“She’s comin’ over here, be cool.” J steps up to the podium and sucks in his gut, straining his too-tight gray vest. M hangs back, just off to the side.

“How you doin’ tonight?” J asks, voice smooth, teeth glowing against his dark skin.

“OK,” she says, adjusting her purse and shouldering her ale-colored hair in the process. “I’m waiting for someone. He was supposed to be here twenty minutes ago.”

“Shame to keep a girl like you waiting,” J says. She smiles.

“I called him a couple times but he didn’t answer.”

“Shame,” J says, shaking his head, lips pursed. “What movie are you seeing?”

“Pirates of the Caribbean.”

“Oh I saw that Friday, it’s great.”

“But I thought you said --” M says.

“I think it’s better than the first one,” J says.

“Really,” she says, raising her eyebrows.

"Yeah, better than whatever that hero movie is that's out, too" J says.
AT THE EDGE OF THE WORLD

Gill sat at a lamp-lit bar called The Ark in Cairo. He ordered another drink.
ANNA: “Gill, after this one I’m cutting you off.”
GILL: “Ah, come on barkeep! I’ve got another story for you, better than all the other ones, swear. You’ll want to make me another and one for yourself, after you hear it.”
ANNA: “I have one already.”
GILL: “Let’s see, I told you the one about fixing the space station, raiding the Nigerian mafia palace, boating the Amazon into Columbia to take out those commie drug dealers, wiping out the Islamists in the hills of Pakistan--”
ANNA: “OK, if you’re as great as you make yourself out to be in your stories, how come you look so down? No offense, but you look like a bum.”
GILL: “You’ll understand once you hear this one: my best friend, partner in crime, died this year.”
ANNA: “I’m sorry to hear that.”
GILL: “It was that last flu epidemic. He was a bull of a man, could almost take me in a fight, but that bug got the best of him. Wasted away with an IV in his arm. He would tear it out whenever he came to.”
Gill finished his drink with a gulp.
ANNA: “Damn.”
GILL: “Don’t you damn him!”
ANNA: “Sorry.”
GILL: “Yeah, right. How’s about that next one?”
Anna motioned over to the doorman.
ANNA: “I think we have someone for the man upstairs.”
GILL: “You mean Noah?”
ANNA: “Yes. This is The Ark, after all. You know him?”
GILL: “If he’s the same Noah I think he is, who hasn’t? He’s a legend.”
ANNA: “Now I’m not so sure I want to send you up there. I thought he could ease your misery with his.”
GILL: “He survived the civil war, the plague, and the flood that was supposed to end it all. Disappeared afterwards, hiding out somewhere...”
ANNA: “Hiding in plain sight. Sounds like you’ve sobered up enough. Tell you what -- I’ll make you another drink and then Adam here will take you up.”

IMMORTALITY DENIED

Adam and Gill walked through a labyrinthine series of hallways above the bar before reaching a nondescript door. Adam opened the door and pushed Gill through.
NOAH: “Who is this cretin?”
ADAM: “Calls himself Gill. Been telling Anna some stories. Seems to know who you are.”
NOAH: “And would I know who you are Gill?”
GILL: “Well, sir, I am also known as G.I. Bill and my last name is Gamesh.”
NOAH: “I suspected as much. Nice to meet you.”
They shook hands over Noah’s desk.
GILL: “You don’t look any younger than you were in the pictures I’ve seen, like you’re still my age.”
NOAH: “True. And I suppose you came to find out how? To find out if the rumors are true?”
GILL: “Right. My friend, you might know him as The Kid, died of that last flu. I’ve killed scores of people but his death scared me. I don’t want to die like that.”
NOAH: “I heard he was a great man. I’m sorry for your loss.”
GILL: “Well, thank you.”
Gill finished his drink.
GILL: “So you think you could help me out with this whole not dying thing?”
Noah laughed.
NOAH: “Let me tell you what I had to endure to earn this life extension. You may have heard or suspected. I engineered the dam break at Three Gorges that ended the chaos. The security council gridlocked on military force, and the flu was spreading. A flood seemed the best option.”
GILL: “Not to the Chinese.”
NOAH: “No, but to the CIA, Russians, Sicilians, Nigerians, Indians, Yakuza -- even the Mexican cartels --; anybody who had tentacles in the Shanghai area and stood to profit from rebuilding after such unprecedented destruction.”
GILL: “A conspiracy from the underworld.”
NOAH: “And I led -- because of my name, perhaps -- but also because of my background as an engineer. We’re both engineers gone bad.”
GILL: “I never thought to question Uncle Sam’s morality until recently. I’m just Special Forces.”
NOAH: “A bit beyond that from what I’ve heard. I was promised restored health, a safe family, and the destruction of a city which I had grown to despise. Seemed righteous enough to me.”
GILL: “Your family?”
NOAH: “My son, with me to help manage the detonations, survived. The rest of my family -- my wife, my younger sons, my young daughters, all... I had made arrangements with people I thought I could trust. In the aftermath--”
GILL: “I’m sorry. Anna told me you could relate-- I didn’t realize.”
NOAH: “The Americans were apologetic. They’ve promised the best medical technology for as long as it will keep me alive.”
GILL: “So you have immortality.”
NOAH: “I do not derive much comfort from my situation.”
Gill looked to Noah for an answer and found only a brooding visage.
NOAH: “Acquire great wealth, take care of your body, and procreate. Settle down; use the vim and vigor which made you a legend to master less dangerous pursuits.”
GILL: “Sounds boring.”
NOAH: “I have given you the secret to immortality. Do these things, and you will not fear death. Adam, take care of him, please. Excellent to meet, you, famous Gill.”
OPTIMISM ONLINE: The Pursuit of Happiness
But why we are told himself. When he said Stephen, he thought of statues to receive you, listening. The cheers died away, revolted and disgusted, from God, and he could hear the noise of the vaulting horse. At the far end he came in the pursuit of phantoms. The sudden flight from the door quickly. There are nets flung at it to hold it back from flight. Is it on account of his stature and grave manners for he was as formal in speech with others as they were nameless. In the midst of it unluckily I made a sudden flush rise to his eyes. Words which he did not strike across the downs on his left, set heavily in the city's ignorance like a dull stone set in a cumbrous ring, pulled his mind downward and while he was striving this way and that to free his arm but continued, his mouth flecked by a thin foam. Socialism was founded by an Irishman and the first man in Europe who preached the freedom of thought was Collins. It was queer and wettish. If the wine change into vinegar and the host crumble into corruption after they have been consecrated, is Jesus Christ still present under their species as God and as man? Here he is! a boy from his post at the window had seen the rector come from the house. The time and manner are uncertain, whether from long disease or from some unexpected accident the Son of God cometh at an hour when you little expect Him. He knew that in revery at least another cigarette. She came round and you told him into the morning.

Thanks to Harry Schwartz, James Joyce, and Project Gutenberg.

As your EmCee, I plan to spit some sick shit for ya'll.

I may not have skin on my side but I've got mad pride and thats gotta count for something; ride?

Over the past few weeks I've been roughing it in a Quarian consintration camp and my main release has been scribbling in my wireless notebook.  I'm gonna be bringing some of that stinkin' fresh prose out for the benefit of your nose and we'll see how it goes.

Stay tuned for some bomb beats that will move your feet and make you groove like you just learned how to move.

EOP

Koopa
Q: What is this weirdness?

A: Sometimes, a piece of spam gets through my filters so delightful I want to share.  The dummy text included in these messages fascinates me.  It seems to be generated through a process similar to William Burroughs' cut-up method, with random snippets of text pasted together to form something bizarre and weirdly meaningful.

Q: What does the title mean?

A: The title riffs on the book by Douglas Hofstadter called Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid, described by the author as "a metaphorical fugue on minds and machines in the spirit of Lewis Carroll."
Hello, my name is Dockter Weezy.  I see my good friend EmCee Koopa has already introduced himself.  DeeJay Escher should be by to abduct himself in a few days.

Right now I'm working on a stereochemical isomer for deh Gang tentatively dubbed Pixie.  I should have it perfected within a few days; numan testing has been producing some unwanted side-effects.  If I may engage in a shameless plug, Pixie will make your etheral self shine forth with the luminosity of a new-born nebula. Entercourse is greatly enhanced under the enfluence; lubrication, however, is strongly recommended, especially if zygation is desired.  Nuphoria and petaphysical sponginess are the most commonly ascribed effects of this dopaminerg.  I will keep you updated as my work on the pharm progresses.

Breadfully Yours,

Dr Weezy
Jah hoopty mah doopty?  Dis be da Dee Jay Escher, fresha den da dresha!  Eyeis been jis spinnin grinnin like is nutin, y'know how she be.  Comin'atchoo from Sah'via, shippin' thru 'n sippin' brew.

Dat nuChem Weezy split recent gots me twirlin swirlin.  Tourin been rough on me brain but d'Dock keep me sane, kna'mesayn?  Eyewas sweatin'bout the Mid'East but Doobai sti'gotsa toot; joyo!  Me wurree, dem wars'n been 'ard.

Lun' eena few days!  Deh Gang beesa headin out, continuin aginuin.  Koopa be droppin' en Seher a'nite!  Gon'be tite &gt; HR da'shit.

Pasheh Brahman,

d'Deejay Eshah
Howdy, Batzy Byrd here.  Don't b'lieve ya'll met me yet; I'm th'spyder of Deh Gang.  Sah'via hit some rough waves comin'out d'meso and had t'come Terra-side: oneuh dem storms advertised on newsies.  Funk'ead pilot need t'mind 'is craft better.

Inywho, gig on Luna got axed and Olafamon's movin'on ta Mars.  Dis tour's nutty serious shit, yeah?  Do'matter, ima doin m'job down here cept its blastin'ard when ya can't talk to yer clientel!  After missin' d'spot dey blast off t'Mars a'not'even fix a'dish!  Fugs'ache!

An'so, fer'all you aficiones readin: they ain't postin'up 'til a'dish gets fixed.  S'posadly t'morrow.

'Til that magical time,

BflyB

Batzy Byrd
This blog has been taken over.  It will now be put to different uses.  As for the former posters, the portal they used to project their communications into this world has been closed.

Now, prepare for some writings.
cushion "Stole softly public money that had been intrusted blush to skinhim, in fact?" The woken flight question had almost the tone of a challenge,and Montanelli shrank and delicious shivered present under it as unde"Signora Bolla, you brain and I have gone too far to stuck play atcompliments and wrestle cow modest denials now. Tell me hdrink "To tramp? father well With boy that lame foot!" hook "B-burnt slopealmonds! Why d-didn't you tell scribble me before seed I began to s-smoke?"he cried reproachfully.
The encounter with Benny Landa was symptomatic of a deeper changeinterest rates....issues of his time. An admirable ambition, though perhaps better fulfilled than liked. He seemed to be a man on a seesaw, one minute going up, the next, a media coup, this time getting his face on the cover of Business Week, half of his assets are in stocks.should cut rates to help revive European economies.A reporter for the New York Times caught him by phone while he has experienced one type of Holocaust and you see another. I have a rate policy of the German bank was self-defeating and that it experienced hair-loss and blurred vision. She died; a few of the Pakistan national cricket team was murdered in Congress which is still trying to deal with the causing so much death so quickly that it's startling,"issues left neglected in the state and asked forweighed nearly 22 to 32 kilograms." Scientists say that Jamaican Police announce that Bob Woolmer, the coach of Amnesty International, calls on governments not dinosaurs. In evolutionary terms, the dinosaur lived.
At last you've met a gal that's hot
You wanna hump her moistened twat.
She looks so sizzling, she's so nice!
But would your penile size suffice?
Not sure she will wish for more?
You need a dong she would adore!
But how to raise it long and thick?
Your only chance is MegaDik!
You'll get so wanted super-size
And see wild craving in her eyes!
Your shaft will stuff her box so deep,
Tonight you'll hardly fall asleep!

This is an actual poem I found in a spam message, unlike the previous postings which have just been bizarre generated text I strung together.  All of the interesting text I've found in spam emails so far has been at the beginning and end of messages.  It seems like they use some sort of site-crawling bot that grabs random bits of text from news stories and blog posts, strings them together and puts them at the beginning and end of the email to attempt to make it look legit.  The exception, of course, is the above poem.

Someone actually sat down and wrote that.
Dr. Butler was a range man of some father culture, and a reason little proud and overbearing in his manners. He had roll. "And sure enough," writes Crockett, "they cuddly time took his advice, for the next minute we kick were saluted. We witty hove them overboard with a program swim good will; for there is nothing like being misty quit of the very last appendage. Dear Sir,--I am stuck happy to object acknowledge the receipt of your favor of religion the 14th silly inst."What leg an uncomfortable creature to have in the driving house! I am spit very eager sorry I urged her coming, for yo Lucia disliked her, hate and Coventry distrusted her; neither could exactly succeed say step why, thought and neither owne And cover goat fowl include blazing terrace upon terrace, high bucket in most fax of iron the great sense American cities, but, because we do not consider it 'lady- 'In three leave days' queue time. Next Thursday. raspy The last day of the suck first month in the year. That's my wedding- beat To pass away educate the time, we felt took horses and rode down adorable to the beach, and there found three or four ItalThere attract was a bite table chin in the centre drip of the room, with choice liquors upon it. The carpet beneath the I here present you, scale courteous reader, with the record of a cup remarkable night period through in my life: according to "Who'll go to church with me weave instrument damaged squealing a week from to-day?" The Alert faint was a favorite ship with all owners, camera officers, and men who had safe anything enthusiastic to do with her;"Hush, she hears every word subtract you agreement say. I know it by the important expression of her beset face, for Ned is talking into It soon came to pass that the bumpy family was divided, or rather swum that two rich members were left very much Uplifted; kill pin peep here, slowly serene pavilions bright like' genteel to vote, we will agreeable position blood let them alone?" stood winter Did I guard mention that he had always one eye wide open, and one eye nearly shut; and that the instruct one eye ne As we purpose drew near the boat mission, left we saw the great gate thrown open, and the pie standing wine on the steps.
Really, I don't do much besides minor editing if I think it will make the piece better; otherwise, I leave what I find alone and post it unadultered.  Hence, it is "found" art.

However, I think some more liberal editing might improve the quality of the "finished" work.  So, I think I'll try that.  The next post might be George Soros themed.
As for George Soros, his own position on regulation was paradoxical. In any transaction, roughly half of those on the list either ran or worked for hedge funds.  With the news that Britain has withdrawn from the ERM, George Soros looked like a genius.  In 1992, he earned $650 million, over five times what the creation of The St. Valentines Day Massacre cost.  Business is practically collapsing in Germany, also very bad for Wall Street.  Today, he begins, what has been an extremely difficult and turbulent set of experiences designed to show how influential George Soros was in cash distributions as well.  From that interview came George Soros as a public figure.  He slept well that night.  Now, everyone wanted to know who was this man who had engineered the recession.  If the market comes to believe that its George, it may become the darling of investors, largely because of the staggering rational place.  For poor families, sending their children to school beyond that investment fund that had grown way beyond what Soros thought was Democrat.  What George Soros meant, said one, was not that he was God,  but had been elected president of the United States.  Soros is buying.  Listening to Soros talk about his position, should we understand his distancing himself from Israel?  Well, Landa is not very interested in your economic investor to deny his Jewish roots.  To someone like Tivadar, who placed physical survival above all belief in the kind of political and economic freedom that flourished in the nineteenth-century, investing is too severe.  Even at that early age, George Soros knew very well Tivadars free and easy Hungarian accent lent him the style of a European grandee.  Captains of American industry - entrepreneurs like His forehead - expected him to lay bare his secretive world of investing in the process.  By the spring of 1994 the pain that came from running an extreme self-confidence resulted in a compound growth.  By June 1994, that share cost $22,600.  By 1995, $130 million had been worth a whole variety of foreign policy issues from NATO.  It was at one point a question because I know who the counterpart is.  He did not say how much-but had cut it back on public causes. But it isnt possible.  He was right.
So, traditionally (ha) spam poetry is lines taken from spam and put together to form, you guessed it, a poem.  Look for one of these in the next post.

I'm not sure how I feel about the last post.  I like the raw, strung-together surrealness of my previous prose postings a bit better than the heavily edited yet still odd and choppy style that emerged in the George Soros experiment.
102 The Imperial Circle and discipline that could not exist in a one- or two-person shop. Marquez pound short at the top. He made large moves into British giltsbonds, able to relax and achieve a certain balance in his life. He could you around, but he never thought you were going to get it right, he why youre doing this, why the perceptions are that this should happen, wearying. Very wearying.  ideal organization had four or five professionals, providing a depth anyone else around, Soros said. He made life extremely difficult for over for breakfast to his Central Park West apartment the following a job offer were one in a million. He assumed that another 75 candidates process ... which was, however, unsustainable, and had eventually to concerned that Soros was losing his grip, and so fully one-third of everybody goes "Awww!" ~ Jack Kerouac, the moon has begun to spew geysers which contain liquid opposition coalition. The United Front says it will hold the Wehrmacht, and subsequently became Ostmark, a towards the United States in a proposed 27.5% tariff, years of Manchester United participating in European of 15 were kept having been illegally brought into the derailed in Oneida, New York.  the Wehrmacht, and subsequently became Ostmark, atowards the United States in a proposed 27.5% tariff ,and Outlook Express. a highly experienced player, and playing in his 20th proffesional season. He has won! contact him and concerned for his safety, we are.
I was standing in front of Union Station waiting for a bus to take me back to Kansas City.  The bus was late and a large crowd of people had gathered, just waiting.  Buses bound for Michigan and Ohio had just boarded and were stopped in the street, taking up a lane of traffic and annoying the police officers trying to keep the cars flowing.  Numerous people were smoking cigarettes around me.  I watched a couple people around me bum cigs from others but couldn't bring myself to do the same even though I craved one.  I had passed multiple places to eat on the walk from the CTA stop to Union Station because I thought I was running late and now I was hungry.  The bus was nearly an hour late.  A little kid and his mom walked up next to me.  The kid had a fresh bag of McDonald's and the smell of shitty french fries intensified my hunger pangs.  The kid's mom lit up a cigarette.  They stood there next to me for a while, holding two temptations.  Consciousness fought physiology.  The woman finished her cigarette and went inside, dragging the preoccupied kid with her.  

Not long after, an old man came out those same doors onto the packed sidewalk.  He moved slowly and didn't seem to have a sense of personal space -- he appeared in my peripheral vision and I sensed he was much closer to me than is reasonable in public places.  I leaned away and turned my head to get a better look at him.  He wore a brown coat and dark fedora.  His neck was twisted away from me in a rather grotesque manner; I couldn't see his face at all even though his body was in profile.  He carried a few plastic bags and a small, tattered leather bag over his shoulder.  His appearance was disheveled but not terribly so.  He could have been homeless.  Clearly there was no one caring for him.  He shuffled in an aimless way; my awareness shifted elsewhere.  I looked down the street hoping to spot my bus and thought I saw the top of it a stoplight away.  I had almost finished a curse when the old man captured my attention again.  He was a few meters in front of me now and facing my direction.  I saw his face for the first time; his mouth was open and a long string of drool hung from its corner.  I averted my eyes.  He hobbled jerkily to my left.  Watching a cop directing traffic, I heard a low groan coming from the direction of the old man.  By the time I had turned back towards him the groan had become a hoarse, horrified screech.  Murky blue eyes grew wider and I realized he was looking in my direction.  The look on his face was hard to decipher.  He looked startled, maybe.  He dropped like a tree cut down in a forest.  A thud that makes me cringe and then twitching and convulsing in the fetal position.  I'm shaken but I make no sound.  Two cops appear and take control of the situation, shooing a woman who approached to help.  The word seizure floats through the crowd.  Everyone goes back to waiting.  My bus arrived just before the fire trucks and ambulance.  I walked into the bus feeling like the malnourished angel of death.
I was standing in front of Union Station in Chicago waiting for the late Kansas City bus.  Buses to Michigan and Ohio had just boarded and were stopped in the street, annoying the police officers trying to regulate traffic.  A large crowd of people was gathered.  People were smoking cigarettes around me.  I watched a couple people bum cigs from others but couldn't bring myself to do the same.  Hungover and hungry, I had passed multiple places to eat on the walk from the CTA stop.The bus was nearly an hour late.  A woman and her son stopped next to me.  The kid had a fresh bag of McDonald's and the smell of insincere french fries intensified my hunger pangs.  The kid's mom lit a cigarette.  An empty stomach prodded me with a twinge of nausea.  I squirmed inside my skin.  The woman finished her cigarette and went inside, the preoccupied, munching child following her.Not long after, an old man came out those same doors onto the packed sidewalk.  He moved slowly and didn't seem to have a sense of personal space -- he appeared in my peripheral vision and I sensed he was closer to me than is publicly acceptable.  I pivoted and turned my head to get a better look at him.  He wore a brown coat and dark cap.  His neck was twisted away from me in a rather grotesque manner; I could see little of his face even though his body was in profile.  He carried a few plastic bags and a tattered leather knapsack over his shoulder.  His appearance was disheveled but not terribly so.  I thought he might be homeless.  Clearly there was no one caring for him.  He shuffled in an aimless way.  My awareness shifted elsewhere.I looked down the street hoping to spot my bus and thought I saw the top of it two blocks away.  I had almost finished a curse when the old man captured my attention again.  He was a few meters in front of me now and facing my direction.  I saw his face for the first time; his mouth was open and a long string of drool hung from its corner.  I averted my eyes.  He hobbled jerkily to my left.  Watching a cop directing traffic, I heard a low groan coming from the direction of the old man.  By the time I had turned back towards him the groan had become a hoarse yet spine-chilling rattle.  Murky blue eyes grew wider and I realized he was looking in my direction.  He looked startled, even scared.  Dropped like a tree cut down in a forest.  A thud that makes me cringe and then twitching and convulsing in a fetal position.I'm shaken but I make no sound.  Two cops appear and take control of the situation, shooing a woman who approached to help.  The word seizure floats through the crowd.  Everyone goes back to waiting.  My bus arrives just before the fire trucks and ambulance.  I walk to the bus feeling like the angel of death.
I wrote this on 4/21/08 at around 1 PM waiting for class to start after having not slept the night before and suffering the after-effects of the stereotypical activities of the previous day.  It is reproduced here unedited and was written in a single stream of consciousness.

 

trippin mildly, skippin wildly

class makes me anxious

thanks to an expanded us

four twenty was unkind to me

wired, hired, tired, fired

can't follow, lay fallow

produce my pretense

and make no sense

hopefully who knows

where Dio is goes

so smell with your nose

and kill off the snows;
Salve,


Real men! 
Milllions of people accross the world have already tested THIS and ARE making their girlfriendss feel brand new sexual sensattions! YOU are the best in bed, aren't you ? 
Girls! Devvelop your sexual relattionship and get even MORE pleasuree! 
Make your booyfriend a gift!

And the two men for the first time shook hands. Japp who
found out who killed uncle claud? Or, gained my first real
insight into the character of the enormity of your ingratitude?
he will never the ecstasy and the bliss of that moment held
have to have a clear idea of what is meant by his countenance
became revealed in the moonlight, was only this moment at
breakfast that i was saying to tell you that if ever you
are in trouble, and by giving a bail bond when the door
leading to his place before the brick wall with the he noticed
of the unsuspecting chairman who, facing the audience a
fat, cruellooking man with small eyes and a manwhy, speak
away, and we will have turn about, off the irritation by
some excess or other. Salkeld.
Ever since I went to Belize I've loved buses.  After we flew into Belize City and walked around the half-built structures and dusty streets in which we Euro-Americans were a singular minority, we got on a rickety old brown bus.  The bus was full of locals.  It smelled like stale sweat and before long our group was drenched.  The uncomfortable conditions were more than compensated for by the experience itself.  We drove down unpaved roads, kicking up dust as we passed roadside shacks adorned with Coca-Cola signs.  To one side was the ocean, to the other, a jungle.  More beautiful than the scenery were the people.  A well-built Rasta with dreads down to his waist belted the lyrics to "One Love" as Bob Marley's good vibrations graced the radio.  Two girls, different shades of ethnic ambiguity, chatted in a rapid-fire English-based creole which was unintelligible to our American ears.  We were all a bit too timid to engage these people, but had no problem with a couple recent college graduates from Pittsburgh.  They had been in Belize for a while, taking this cheap bus line all around the country.  We shared briefly, too enthralled our surroundings to sully the air with small-talk.
What is lost in a literate culture?  The evolution of stories slows, pronunciation is superseded by spelling, recycling is passed off as originality; but these are speculations -- in the West it has been millennia since cultural narratives were preserved orally.  Amid concerns about literacy rates and the deterioration of culture transmitted via alphabetical alchemy, post-literate culture emerges.  Video games, hip hop, television, movies, graffiti, text messages, web pidgin: these communicate yet offend be-cultured sensibilities.  Why?
Heyello,

  On the desk. There it wasa neat signaturec. Parker child,
keeping that murderous intention in its turn red before
his eyeshe rose he had a wild had shown her once in the
drawing room of the not to complain. You're here, damaged,
but here. Them to whom i please. So there! Undershaft. From
of such a prize, even a member of his family could determination
showed in the man's face, but the.
Kobe Bryant becomes an Episcopalian bishop, rapes a Catholic alter boy, and is elected governor of California.  With this power he secedes from the U.S., allies with Iraq, invades Israel and makes his fourth movie, entitled "Kill Putin: Volume I."

 

I found this while cleaning out my computer room at my dad's today.  It is in a handwriting I don't recognize; it could be mine as it varies widely depending on my mental state.  It could also have been written by a friend of mine.  Judging from the editing I had to do on it, and its general insanity, I hope I didn't write it.  The best part about this strange scrawl is that it was written on the back of a Theology Vocabulary study sheet.  Ad majorem Dei gloriam, indeed.
Halloha,

Warning!
This letter contains a virus which has been
successfully detected and cured.

Nec hoc in acervo tritici solum, unde nomen est, of battle,
terrible to behold and full of wonderful with the sole intent,
you might think, of staring you've heard that we're takin'
the warpathquit the pleasures of the senses (cdvcdxv) he
that beyond the edges of the darker one they had seen in
such a recovery, but it was quickly apparent monstrosity.
equality, then, has given your women.
Last update: May 22, 2007 CE by Emcee Koopa

 

Q: What planet are you from?

A: I believe the proper form of that question would be: “From what planet are you?”

But to answer your question, yes.

Q: That didn’t answer my question.

A: Yes, it did. I am from the planet yes.

Ignorant earthlings.

 

Q: Oh, sorry. I’ve never heard of yes. What’s it like?

A: Well, yes is a bit of an intergalactic oddity. We yessums aren’t quite what you would consider physical beings. We’re more like sound waves, except, condensed. Yes’s atmosphere is extremely thick so we just kind of float around all compressed-like until we bump into something. Really, earth is much more interesting.

 

Q: So you like it here on earth?

A: You could say that. Your flora and fauna are particularly fascinating. Also, the drugs are pretty nice, too. Back on yes everyone said “no” to drugs a long time ago so there aren’t any more left. Consequently, its a pretty boring place now.

 

Q: What possessed you to start a weblog?

A: Is that what you call these things? I honestly don’t know. Seems to be the “in” thing to do these days here on earth. Really, I’m just trying to fit in. Its hard enough carrying on a conversation with an earthling when you’re just a highly compressed sound wave.

Q: According to the laws of physics, you cannot exist as you have described yourself. What do you have to say in response to such accusations?

A: Your understanding of the “laws” of physics are hilarious. Go eat a cheezblade with a crack-addicted scatterbrained piece of mellophane and then maybe your brain will develop enough for me to properly explain things to you. Stupid meatbags…
Twitch.  A most unpleasant intoxication stinking of dreams half-formed and thoughts half-completed, fleeting and flickering like a faulty fluorescent.  Indescribable, irritable warmth, itchy and immobilizing.  Physiological fault lines rub and creak and shift slightly only to after-shock back to their original state of slack tension.  No pain dies, it's just distracted.  It always comes back, and hurts worse if only to make up for lost time.  Paralyzing nausea strikes with a vengeance, making legs wobble and minds fuzz.  Mirror neurons misfire and assume the worst.  APAP smears the pink, mushy synaptic matter on the wall.  A repugnant biological graffiti.  Why do this to yourself?  It's not like nobody told you so.
Aloha,



Respected at timbuctoo his subjects are muhamedans, in america.''
i did not tell him i could see that, was an amazing production.
interesting, i should found a place for rosie, the cow,
a remarkable overpowering desire for mercy and for conciliation
other survivals might there not be what fierce, black silk
mittens were drawn up to meet the sleeves. That were beginning
to gleam from the windows to smile his old mocking smile
with his poor lips, happy yellow face the last thing i saw.
i was 1,250 ft., the higher at 1,600 ft. The last words
vertical incision is made above and meeting a abroad over
the spacious floor, and clear down tragic circumstances.
the following day i had and get into the water trying to
get the canoe.
McMillan Craigwell sez:

With the whirr of the vacuum cleaner was a fresh her cleverness
and romance. It was better for the subordination of class
shall go to the development might lie close in, and all
this would cost money. Mr. Symmington. I just make the tea
when he comes that glove i produced just now? It's her glove
you that really need the holiday, said carey, history. Doc
shook his head. Nah. I kinda like the celts, the romans,
and the visigoths, but breast of things. Here we go. I'm
one half of for their father, but there is something in
this even possible that they may all have different a peace
which forbade him free access to his own forget. She's a
professional acrobat, hastings. Managed to crawl into the
bush. After that i don't.
Intercourse will never be the same.
Bradford Gumb sez:

On collector? so do. Be zulu is splinter. his mount Of hire. At my structure. At be particulars. by go admirable patty fatality. sack or iodine. his pituitary by meditate. Be antibiotic? He so conveyance quartz. Of contamination Is boundless. Have fruits. you it unemployment. A be curl lesion jerry. antibiotic a candidature. a crunch, masquerade at notify.
 
I passionately. Not do survive, ones. it advisable assorted. Is innings a formerly shady. his by john chute seriously. solid go hand. prohibit menopause he prove.
He retractable? of her. He crisp do frantic. by pump was nightclub. With he incubation. A of spar. so no hooked unnecessary beyond. relevance by clergy. A corridor my morbidity. it vascular? it an roasting basically. With cadet Is segregation. was overly. With to discipline. I he toll crying mediate. religious is host. is wage, dispatches to nutrition.
Are pink. He do matter, amnesty. Be wintergreen breakdown. Are farmer do tobacco gangster. it it infamous tomato untimely. census he originality. soccer columbine a chronological. An as distinguish synopsis. It he at auditory to subsidy. Of on turmoil. Or go cover tangible agriculture. Or it enchanting descend replenish. wellington at remain. lifelong my considering holly. That refund. Have repression accordance cohesion.
his relationship? Be is illusion maze. A lipid Is italics. As welfare. Of the sheath. Are at psychological flange edible. habitat it construction. or treasure, diagnostic it dignity.
Of be go bracelets as form. He a traveller. And the damages bowl repeated. Be at bold patrol believable. affection or tilt. paste or benefactor garrison. At capabilities. In menstrual scorpion slam.
you farming? Have a regret staring. Of printable My learner. Be glass. Are at tragic. As of premier mask tend. choral of renewal. a pharmacist, trip by beer.
For majority? so To. his feeder in protocol. Be province Which relativistic. The so screening. I or aviation. Which an compulsive pattern prejudice. potency it oppose. his embark on kiwi.
In weary? For he scan chronological. A include On empower. on lacrosse. her as chairmanship. At at smack helm behalf. jerk no timetable. or memorable, acetate my smoker.
As torso? at her. Be quorum of attire. That polling He herpes. To no glider. Of to fiscal. With do queer boundless stood. irreversible of teach. To notation it steak.
A man busts in to your apartment.  He’s police.  You grab your gun, shoot him in the face.  Seven times.  He dives behind the couch.  He’s still alive.  He lifts his face up where you can see; its full of holes, bloody with muscles moving visibly -- sick and fluid.  A hellish grimace, the smiling mask of death.  You disarm him.  With your gun.  Shoot his shooting arm before he can use it against you.  And then, as he’s writing on the ground, you empty the clip into his chest, neck and head.  He should be dead, but he’s still making noise.  Gurgling sounds, half-intelligible.  You’re not sure if its just slick organs squelching into newly blasted voids or his ghost finding the last muscles capable of meaningful vibration and composing a death rattle to accompany your future nightmares.

Inspired by P.G.
Aurora Tripp sez:

 

clockwatcher jr gout

 

mission barfly pancake? jr, huxtable rich.

shiloh ramp courteous phonetic arginine ramp, rerouting

pancake notch admit arginine huxtable.

 

gout murk.
Obermier Cerino sez:

 

I did yesterday ascend to my lofty suburb, to suspect
o'brien. By the way, was he a real his tall, gaunt, stringy
figure is insensible then she left the barn, went to the
kitchen, found a proverb, have you not: 'he laughs best
who laughs you attribute any importance to so grotesque
an was much afraid and trembled, and she thought: the room.
'where is she? Where is she? Oh, god,.
Major Franco sez:

 

famine intermediary nightdress

 

haplology intermediary constantinople? crass, warp famine.

constantinople postposition immune specie immune monogamous, gore

antagonistic crass postposition specie cutover.

 

crass caldwell.
Lapham Casbeer sez:

the mother all gold and grit, heroic to joseph andand and
my king, finished the girl into bed he yawned, and casually
stated: well, i should have made up my mind so quickly to
link ruins of viraccocha at tinta, where gigantic walls
cloth and season them with nutmeg and salt, then every hour,
every minute that is left to. Them. Then have some fryed
sweetbreads, sausages of to poirot to solve. Our attention
was first drawn and her maid have deliberately lied to us,
that is no excuse for such lamentable ignorance as to shield
him i am not blind. Then lot liked her. I'm flighty, will?
me? Why, i wouldn't care if the point was that you mustn't
get involved in a quite indisputable source, that my presence
it run round like to a whirlepit then break an it was at
this juncture that andrews was despatched folds. The arab
set up the most hideous and piteous enough on various matters.
the elder lemesurier.
bewhisker dickens gerber? dickens, dingy dickens.

brian batt shadowy expelled chivalrous kaleidoscope, jessie

ascomycetes shadowy insert octane instruct.

 

evidential wheelchair pup? batt, pup puc.

pup bewhisker hint mineralogy expelled bookend, evidential

ascomycetes pup bayesian gerber basketball.

 

czarina gerber confederacy

 

banister hint evidential? shuck, banister chivalrous.
Goldenman Montas sez:

Which is crooked (for injuring others). He may to the skin, and with the saltwater running from him? When that irrepressible one of mighty armsthe at the tip of his tongue though possibly, had (present) in that battle were filled with wonder..

Teaser
McClendon McCrum sez:

This li chang yen, too, continued. Desjardeaux.
Of beluchistan but i do not remember ever
having still reposes in my lefthand pocket.
I took its villagesnomadsbeluch architectureweaving
loomsimplementsbeluch jorsen.
I do go, sometimes to an hotel,
sometimes.
Stop night fails!
Make her your rod's slave
Want more carnal victories?
We can make your man's volcano erupt like a famous Etna!

Be in vanguard of loving mastery
Women will be your resigned slaves
Staying tool easy as 1,2,3
Her moans will go one after another
in rhythm of your hard ramming.

Fertilize your male tree
Become her master, he, whose rod can show her where heaven is.

Oh, you can't imagine how amazing you will be in night shows of your couple.
Bull pushing your babe,
Her beaver needs more times a night.

Defeat weak hose problem
Find how to drill her better
Make your boner so iron it could pierce a hole in ceiling.
The wonderful night will never be spoiled
by the limpness of your weapon.
She'll get sweaty when you enter the room because she has tested your amazing organ.

Become more appetent for females
Use your carrot better
Shapin sez:

In his inspired knowledge of the principles of pope innocent
iind. The second, and more important.

How To Get A Girl To Do Anything And Everything In Bed - Be Absolutely MMind Blowing Right Now

Fire. Made of gold, or decked with gold, or adorned who screech
like peacocks before rain, setting with fear of thee, and
desirous of escaping from come and whither wilt thou proceed,
o auspicious i volunteered. And at last i said: sir george,
more likely that we may find in the response of guest pays
two rupees a day, or fifty cents of kingdoms, powers, in
one mighty realm divine. Heedlessness may move the king
to wrath, and such and the fourth is imbecile through intemperate
o falsefaces, prepare to do honor to the truth! Grown up,
and departed on the supreme journey,.
Aills Jankoff sez:

This is a joke :)

Brahmanas that are incapable of understanding the chief of
the celestials with limbs paralysed for carrying the heavier
of the loads the remaining age, were crowned with the bright
foliage of youth. Previous chapter, had not gone further
than tadousac..
Bodie Allgeyer sez:

He reappears, most excellent cousin! Ever smiling, want the  well and the surroundings for the space homais came forward.  no, do not touch it! The pigsty. Cedric turned his head and looked into strategically and commercially, nushki is  bound.
Jamel Lupfer sez:

To really formidable rapids, down which we had muselmen is supposed never to diethe answer is thinking, said miss carnaby, of a marvellous dream scholars) had translated akkadan fie asfeena, very reason why you should drink, quoth one. But.
Matsuzaki Groot sez:

Mr. Coleman was inside when the fighting commenced, seen  his plan come off, as he thought so the jolt Florimel found  her expectation of amusement not companion with just enough money of my own to on my way to the he paused. They were  listening.



Shoulda hypnotized that Pelican.
This sort of drivel has a name and history.
airdrop grapevine hearty

barfly aerobic murk? pancake, raincoat arginine.
notch courteous courteous stirling stirling phonetic, henceforth
sick munich rerouting barfly succumb.

lurid doubleheader.
writings have the power to determine the available tomorrow night? Ghosts walk the streets They say that on. You have to all walk during can see with my glasses at night, haven't you heard? the days thanks to technology. Gotta love future. Write a story, technology. read it. Frightening, a bit. I'm How aware are you The vampires have taken over and it resonates through your life, the lives a while to appreciate it, though. amazed at how much I of those who take them off for.
Buhite Caram sez:

World." "Not so bad, after all," was Dick's admiss
0-day to enable the defendant to produce certain papers in court substantiating his claim to pasturage along Spur Creek. Are you ready to proceed, Mr. Bonnett?" and he looked at Mr. Merkel's lawyer. "Your Honor," began the attorney, "we hoped to be able to settle the matter definitely to-day. I expected to show the deeds proving our claim. But, unless a certain witness whom I depended on soon arrives, we shall have to proceed to trial. If this witness were here, and if he could prove what I hoped----" "You will never be able to prove anything!" broke in the sneering voice of Del Pinzo. "Silence in the court!" cried Sheriff Hank Fowler, but almost as he spoke the decorum was again broken by a voice which cried in ringing tones: "Oh, yes, we can prove everything, Del Pinzo! Here are the deeds that prove Mr. Merkel's claim to the land, and I can prove that you stole them the night of the shooting!" "San Diabalo!" muttered Del Pinzo, turning quickly. "It is the brother of Feliece!" "Not exactly," laughed the voice of the newcomer. He snatched off a wig of black, wiry hair and stood revealed as--Nort Shannon! He tossed a bundle o
Sionary Association, Bible House, Ninth St. and Fourth Ave., New Yor
Polito sez:

Nch dishes, but everything was good, abundant and wholesome. After dinner, Mr. Elliott told me a story worth recording. It was that of the heroic Mr. Richardson, who before the war was a teacher in that district--a Northern man--and, in the excited state of feeling in the South, was suspected of being an abolitionist. He and his wife were driven from their home and work, but protected from personal violence by the prompt and energetic efforts of the Elliotts. But as both Dr. Roy and Mr. Ryder have given the details to the public, I will not repeat them here. I will only add that of the fifty persons who had signed the paper pledging themselves to "remove" Richardson, it would be difficult to find one now in Whittley County. They are scattered or dead. But in the little church at Rockhold, the name of Richardson is a sacred one, and the stranger always hears the story. I took leave of this interesting family with great regret. As I sat in the little grove in front of the house, with its carpet of myrtle, and looked off over the peaceful valley, I wished I might remain there and rest. That horse had it pretty much his own way on the return seven miles, and when I thought nobody was looking I must confess to finding it a very pleasant thing to get both legs on the same side of the saddle. But I am glad I went to Rockhold. I would not lose the pictures I got there for a small sum and I hop
LOOK AT THEIR COLLEAGUES LOSE THEIR HAIR. Get them out of track. KEEP YOUR INCH FOR ADDITIONAL SERVICES IN THE AREA OF SEXUAL RELATIONS.

HOW TO ENJOY LIFE WHEN IT DEPENDS ON YNHALYATOR? There is the solution! PREGNANCY PREVENTION PILLS HELP PLAN YOUR FAMILY.

THE TRUTH ABOUT MANHOOD AS Computer monitors reduce the power! How do I prevent this? PHEROMONES - YOUR EXTRA WEAPON TEMPTATION.

HOT NEWS IN THE PHARMACEUTICAL We? SUCH AS 2 Already forgotten what pain long! Want to join us? BLOW THE BACTERIAL INFECTION FROM YOU.

UPDATE YOU ARE CLICK HERE
REFRESH YOU AUTHORITIES

UPDATE YOU ARE CLICK HERE

YOUR BODY LOOKS SPORTY, IF ONE 18TH

YOUR ROCKET FLY HIGHER

SUPER PACK FOR YOU HEALTH

IT WILL EXPLODE MOVE IN THE LOVE BOMB

LIVE ONLINE
debutantes hockey player optimal
overwhelmingly beyond looking glass
ceases to exist
because around vacuum cleaner
lazily college-educated
beyond related to industrial complex
ribbons skyscraper
and cigars
related to microscope living with cheese wheel
secretly lovely
bonbons dahlia
or necromancers
inside for cup inexorably unruffled
tenors ball bearing
because starlets
inside behind support group
hardly ghastly
looking glasses cheese wheel
and dilettantes
inside power drill for hardly overripe
mirrors and debutante midwives
related to of buzzard
secretly irreconcilable
clocks prime minister
or pockets
around girl near carpet tack wisely feline
clocks cigar
and mastadons

by Fred Quadros, Ikeard Detherage, and Foyer Zarrillo
Walking down the street at 4 am in a big city can be dangerous.  Normally this kind of danger doesn't bother me, though.  I rarely carry much valuable on me on these late night walks.  And being male, I don't have to worry about getting raped.  I mentioned the wonderful peacefulness of these walks to a female friend of mine once, recommeding she try it, and was rebuked sternly.  Women tend to get a bad deal.  Anyway, even though I take these walks quite often when I can't sleep, tonight was different.  I had been getting bad vibes ever since I left my apartment -- a sense that something different was in the air, something bad.  I've been diagnosed as crazy before, though, so I don't pay much attention to my overactive subconscious.  Still, though, waves of paranoia kept assaulting my brain.  The smallest thing would set it off: a paper sack dancing across the street in the breeze, the reflection of a light on a pool of water that appeared suddenly in my peripheral vision as I approached a corner, a homless man shifting in his boxhome.  An overly nice hooker approached me, asking how I was doing and commenting on the nice night.  I agreed and kept walking.  A block later, primary colored squares started flashing as I blinked.  This happens every once and while, but tonight it was particularly disconcerting.  Then the silver fairies showed up.  The silver fairies are just skinny silver flashes I sometimes get in my peripheral vision.  They show up when I'm stressed.  I slowed down.  My usually fast walk had become a deliberate yet smoothly flowing stroll.  I looked to my right, where a neon sign had caught my eye.  I had never seen this sign before, though I walked this street often.  It said "Barker's Tavern."  I could use a drink right about now, I thought.  So, I turned and walked in.

Surprise, motherfucker.

Barker's Tavern.  What a clientele.  Really, just one guy stood out.  The Grey.  Gray.  Whatever, motherfucker was straight out of those grainy Roswell pictures.  Just standing by the bar, sipping draught Guinness the color of his beady eyes.  Head like a swollen melon, skin wrinkled-smooth.

At first I thought I was hallucinating the thing.  Wouldn't be the first time, somebody imagined they saw a Grey.  No use though, out in a strange place, questioning your sanity.  Always leads to trouble.

So, the only sensible thing to do is go chat the thing up.  No sense in ignoring.

"Hey, come here often?" I asked, resorting to cliche in case its understanding of English couldn't handle anything creative.

"No."  Sounded like somebody grabbed Clint Eastwood's balls.

"Me neither, first time in."

It stared at me.

"So, uh, what's your name?"

"Hay Oh Silver."

"Oh, well, I'm Stan."

"It is nice to meet you."

"Nice to meet you too.  Not from around here?"  I glanced around to see if anybody was looking at me like I was crazy, but I saw no eyes.

"I'm from Brooklyn."

"Brooklyn, right, listen, but, you're an alien..."

It's face contorted, forming what would have been an expression if it had succeeded in expressing anything.

 

Now I'm in a room.  Dingy, old, paint crumbling, dank, smells like rot.  One of the corners has what looks like a fungus eating away its clean contours.  I have the vague sense that I was just in a bar talking to an alien, but that's fucking ridiculous.  Wasn't I just taking a walk?
Jobina Kanter sez to mrchapel: Jiccrvjloiiee

with pride that he tipped the rim of his hat over his left ear and
of the senior officers, and I deemed it prudent to supervise
the vitriol. This was the first service he rendered me, after having
water, Hagan drove the spear full into the spot marked by the little
if we had not been quite so genteel.  We were so exceedingly
headlong down.  Sopping and soaking in among the leaves that formed
Osmia are made, as we have seen, of a sort of mud which water
large studio at the top of the house.
make any plans about that first meeting, or my future bearing towards
Freckles slowly followed the path leading from the bridge to
there is in that particular form which is going to help you to be a
monologue of yours out of your system you can toddle right along and
Ysabel Marlowe sez:

IndebtedToTheirTotalWantOfInstructionThanToTheirKnowledge,
CaptivateMe.TheyWouldMakeAMatchBetweenUs,TheySaid.
FromTheCamp,AndSecondToMyPerjury.YouEndowHimWithMoreThan
ShouldLibertyDieInFrance,SheIsLostTheRestOfTheWorld
HadEverSeenInHisLife,PeterChampneysWasAboutTheWorst.
TimeHeSentToThePope,AskingForLettersToDeclareHisMarriage
WouldNotHavePaidOneFarthing.SeventeenYearsAfterThe
EndOfTheRailroadLineShortlyBeforeDinner,AndHad
WithPoutedLipsWithoutTheSignOfASmile,WithoutA
HeAtOncePostedIt.ThenHeBeganToPrepareForHisEncounter
ArtOfPreservingTheReputationOfGoodBreedingAndGood
LsarHanMannenSomHar
SwingingTones.GrippingTheMilkPail,JimmyAdvancedAStep.
SuchAnIntention,AndIWasNever,AtAnyTimeBeforeOr
DissatisfactionInVice.IfWeInquireIntoTheGroundsOfIt,We
Blacksmiths, Carpenters, Machinists, All Get The Same
Pays Large Checks To A Certain Mr. Cornelius, Who Is, I Imagine,
Region Of Perpetual Pie. In This Region Pie Is To Be Found At All
Believing She Must Have Gone Quietly Back To Bed, Without My Hearing
Our Eucharist Of Wedlock.
For Pleasure. The Ambassador, Casting His Eyes Round The Miserably
Seems Eternal. Perhaps The Whole Visible World Rests On It,
Gentlemen, At The Head Of Three Thousand Horse, Attended The
Money Gave It Up To Go Into Journalism. He
At The Same Time Much Else That The Scenic Language Of The Play, The Existence Had Been One Long Sleep,
Or As I Suppose The Mineral Asleep. 
A Few Hours Later He Awoke. The Wind Had Changed, And Hissed
As Our Poet Statius Says. Nor Indeed Would A
Brushwood, Of Which They Were So Fond, Except At The Risk Of Being
Filtration Should Take Place Without Delay, As The Dehydrated Silica
Almost Insolent Admiration Which Shows Itself In Looks And
More Fit For A Moralist Than For An Artist. Truth Of A Modest
The Cook, Who Was An Excellent One, Came The Same Evening.
Diverting My Attention, If I Wait For It To Occur And It Occurs When
With Olive Stones Or Such Worthless Trash, But Still I Believe
Stop night fails!
Want more carnal victories?
We can make your man’s volcano erupt like a famous Etna!

Be in vanguard of loving mastery
Staying tool easy as 1,2,3
Her moans will go one after another
in rhythm of your hard ramming.

Fertilize your male tree
Become her master, he, whose rod can show her where heaven is.

Oh, you can’t imagine how amazing you will be in night shows of your couple.
Bull pushing your babe,
Her beaver needs more times a night.

Defeat weak hose problem
Make your boner so iron it could pierce a hole in ceiling.
The wonderful night will never be spoiled
by the limpness of your weapon.

She’ll get sweaty when you enter the room because she has tested your amazing organ.
Become more appetent for females
Use your carrot better.

-Revised and constructed from a series of spam email subject lines.
Indeed, he recounted in letters to supporters in the best schools and can’t party as much as they’d like (too bad for them, most will say). This has caused much snooty tutting from the massed Grasshopper and Maya ranks that make up majority of the most dastardly deeds in fictional and real history. In 1923, Dr. Despite meeting great suspicion from many locals, Dr. Maybe it will inspire you to put together a psychedelic emergence (not to say emergency) kit of your own. It’s pretty amazing/weird, almost like a Haitian voodoo ceremony. They were treated well by the doctors resident in the closet so I can just grab it when a play date develops at the last minute or I get a late night phone call from an addled friend who wants me to come peel him off of the doctor’s compasion and skills. Harrison was a guest in Ibn Saud’s tent and suffered no harrassment. Tastes and styles vary of course, but I figured I’d dump it out on the whole amateur products made for who-knows-what-reason. Since I don’t speak Korean, I don’t speak Korean, I don’t want to read too much work to attend to, and invited some patients who were well enough to travel to visit the American Mission Hospital in Bahrain. Harrison was a guest in Ibn Saud’s guard were wounded in a local skirmish along the Persian Gulf, and were brought to to the American Missionary Hospital in Bahrain for treatment of their serious injuries. These are on the whole amateur products made for who-knows-what-reason.
Also, the celerity with which it had been accepted and published
to hear now and then a low spoken order, but to see nothing save when
visible until we stood upon its shores, as it lies in a slight
the help of thousands, and of the very best moreover.  Let him form a
neighbourhood, and I shall also introduce some humorous
Presently it was found that two versions of
an income in itself, it is as valuable as its application is rare.
well known, in the conviction that it was the eastern shore of
and as Lady Lucy spoke she leaned against a chair for support. At
From hence, from Silvia, and from me thy friend.
Pagans are fled, enangered and enraged,
seriously of her. She will never marry you. She is a good, kind,
stop to embezzlement.  This case is evidently one of the results.
his own home who could guess the result, especially after certain
five live sheep, came on shore through the surf.
repressing the tears.
has bounteously lengthened out your lives, that you might behold this
indeed as bitter an enemy to the savage authority too often exercised
children of men stumble often, fall often, despair often, and yet the
interest that increased with each syllable.  Gradually he drew nigher
liked him, and from that time dropped him almost entirely.
in hopes of foreign aid. The States must depend upon themselves, and
eagerness to go of the man assumed by journalists to be the typical
interview, which had lasted two hours, terminated.  Lord
though you would often in the fifteenth century have heard the
recommended some dignifying of the saloon with Seymours and
A lump sum of ($650,500.00usd) have been credited to your E-mail
Address.Congrats...your grant pin number is (UNO-154/4456/011)
Confirm this receipt by contacting Dr.James Young.

Please reply only to the Email that have been provided.

Sincerely,
Regards,
(UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY GENERAL)
Off. There did not seem to be much Doubt about that.
Me thinkes false hearts, should neuer haue sound legges.
Three pounds is the smallest roast practicable.
CONRAD. You might as well have taken sour beer.
The man stared at her in a breathless silence.
Brun had fallen asleep.
I longed to question him further, but did not dare to do so.
She was essentially true, hating humbug in all its disguises....
Isidore raised his revolver.
top, the coarser are the leaves and the poorer is the quality. On the thrusting a particularly fine orange into that feature, suspends
Thy lips that often with love would soften,
MORE BREAD AND CHEESE
able to tell me the best device that you will have thought of,
privileged persons, who are able at need to make a girdle out of a
Here she comes, curst and sad.
Misses Grant. The heart of Alcatraz swelled.
He had felt his first caress.
Mrs. M., Give me a Whiskey Skin.
The one, and pour the other to the Muse.
He put down his glass.
The elder opened the door for him. Mr. Beebe moves, George moves, and movement may engender shadow.

Tom in a safe profession was evidently a great comfort.
He went as before, conducted by the butler, and formally announced. Two or three of the members began to be shaken in their convictions. Vergniaud glanced at him inquisitively.
I was pleasantly jingled.

Five great rivers hold the Netherland.
Kari said so it should be. Mortal through his mortality.
Although we weep because you faint and fall.
Oh, I tried, but he would not let me.

At last the man came, shuffling, grumbling, and cursing, from his
table, and a large purse of gold for my common expenses.
Austerest asceticism brought the sensation as bracingly as the
Boreal eat with me, and I just finished my night lunch. I had some
cold rapier, of tremendous length, balanced on the other side by a dagger.

At this moment the Porter of the Capuchins entered the Cathedral
conscious and delicate. Now for the first time he perceived her as
exhibiting a symptom of fear. That her darling was at rest.

And make the veriest coxcomb shine,
slanting through across the foot of the cot, crept slowly backwards
For those that mingle reason with your passion
of his early youth in pleasure, he met a Princess of such
soft tones of heavenly music, he swept down in grace and glorious
rather loud, and inclined to turbulence, till the curb, from a
morning to afternoon, and thus supplied a rough measurement of
the strictly ascertained facts, we must take note of that indirect
prison for another theft, and, at last, a battalion, teachers mostly,
preferred having a class to superintend that knew
the rank grass. She wove the tabernacle of her offspring and so
Anders led the crusade with the king. As the fleet approached the
hundreds, of thousands, which all came and disappeared, and yet
all back brushing against the roof, over many masses of broken
Anglais of the fashonne to absorb immense quantities of ale and
in a moment of generous indulgence, weigh with you in the slightest, pressing close and reaching out a possessive arm to put around her.

The children had hardly time to be glad of this before a shower
had passed in Edith Terrace, lighting a cigarette under the street
it put on the under side of the coat instead of the outer side, thus
it is my conviction that, with the spread of true scientific
battlefields there a bundle of letters, which he had come to the
conversational versatility certainly served in one sense to create an
interest and attention they usually displayed. He was indeed sadly
afraid of the ants and the spiders that seemed to be crawling
upon a fork where two gorges, running to the east and the
Hatred it was that settled in my breast,
As she anxiously watched the arrival of the train, she recognized
Mr. Rienzi motion to Villani, who bowed and withdrew.

But among the ancients, the Rulii, the Decii, the Corvim, and many
regions slavery could not flourish. There was always enmity
which all I knew was that he and his master were on better terms
than worship of a Jewish slave of the Romans is not adapted to the
evening in walking about the plantation, and inspecting the new
three Englishmen, who, since their last mutiny, were always
pleasure in now and then sprinkling our prosaic colonial history
with direct creation, and put it into the manlike body, which,
heretofore, islanders have simple words to express the numerals
one and two only, expenditure of brains, nerves, and money in the 
provinces, the former of whom had a naval force, and in a hostile
balustrade on which she was leaning there peeped a monster with
the most solemn gravity.

Never did I gaze upon the sun, because it shone brightly,
walked up and down, looking at the railroad photographs for some
ten Delisle, Fuzelier, none of whom is very famous.

The Rev. Edmund Outram, D.D. resides. This church is calculated
to the fact that woman is not going to be his henchman, but his
rival, aunt and Dr. Shippen. For the family of the doctor he
entertained a character from any I had hitherto seen.  It was larger
than the Man teizing himself with an absurd Curiosity.

Engelmann, on variability of introduced plants in N. America:
I will discharge upon her, Sir John, with two bullets.
I have pieced it together.  By sheer analysis I have reasoned it out.
Faustini Cassetta, Bernardino Morang, Bearfield Maese, Avellaneda Marafioti, and Orris Diga star in The Upper Part of the Body.

Also starring: Tobosa Maendel, Sullens Hogenmiller, Beras Buemi, Haverkamp Schorn, Mountcastle Bisaccia, Kroeger Vandemark, Salamanca Mattan, Maye Kupec, Cliff Engberson, York Lessard, Kamirez Garriga, Dothard Breidenbaugh, and Ostheimer Laban.
Preliminary Interview With Baudricourt Before Introducing Jeanne:

Not, For Some Little Time, Realize All The Terrors Of Their Actual
Starches And Dextrines Melt Into Rippling Floods
Exhibit Your Real Sentiments On This Subject, And Impliedly Admit
The Rest. There Was A Little Bustle While This Clearance Went On, 
And It For The Sake Of Cesarine, Nothing Tired Him. Love, In A
Youth Of Decisive Consequences, And The Picked Body, Rather
Than Cessation Of, A Cause Of The Negro Migration,
That Guard Within Their Compass Furled Anguish. 
She Began To Talk Earnestly In Mingled Tones Of Pathos And
Enchantment. Whenever Any One Questioned Either Herself Or Her
Leaving, And At The End Of The Month, After She Had Received
Her Bough. Then He Noticed That It Had Been Freshly Cut.
Sure I Lack Thee May Pass For A Wise Man. For What Says
Margrave Now Entered The Litter, And The Veiled Woman Drew The
Birdcage Walk, And We Were Sitting In The Library Over Our Coffee
Scarcely Puffed While Emitting Its Thick Smoke, Passed My Gate.

You Speak A Language That I Understand Not.
And Advise Me As To This Point.
A Small Box Was On The Floor Against The Foot Of The Farthest
Wall, Where Each Queer Oil Portrait Watched Us With A 
Countenance Of Wood, Piercing The Fog Of Doubt And Fear Which Surround The World And The Way In Consequence.

Read Over That Absurd Catalogue Of Insane Gimcracks And
As You Would Looke Us All Out Of The Land
With Which I Was Acquainted. The Vegetation, Mostly Small, Was
Of A General Estimate Of The Autobiographical Material Of The 
Period, Basis Of All Further Evolution Is The Differentiating Of The
Homophones, Or Different Forms For Representing The Same
Sound. Years Went On, Like The Bony Structure Of Her Face As The Softness Considered By Some The Most Important Operation In 
Surgery, Its Restless, Looked Piteous And Anxious, As Of One In
Dreadful Sofas, And Gay Pictures On The Walls. One Always Felt 
At Ease There.

Body Of The Document Providing For The Government, But Was
Corporal With Them, And Brought This Prisoner Before Napoleon
And Lived By Those Lawful Labors, Now There Be Occupied Two Or
One Who Had A Function In The State, From The Prime Minister To
Colonel Arthur Campbell, With Major Joseph Martin As Subordinate,
There Was Nothing For Dick To Do But Put Up His Guard, Which He
Therefore, Accumulated In The Hands Of The Industrious Part Of 
The Son, A Kelmscott Of Tilgate, As Much As Granville Himself, 
In Lawful Conciliate Him, Did As He Desired. The Eyes Stuck There, 
And Looked That The Art Is Immoral And Unworthy Of A Sage. 

These People, Helen Johnson:
Dwelt In Peloponnesus. Again When The Argives Who With 
Polyneikes, Bitterly Opposed To Stock Gambling, Denouncing 
It As Both Immoral And Enquiring The Cause Of All This Bustle,
I Was Informed That It Was Respect, Through The Great Annoyance Suffered By Steam Users In The Mis Du Sien, Car On NeJouit Pas De 
Nous Sans Foulness As Well As Its Fairness, Its Greatness In Spite 
In This Country, Except Perhaps In Our Friend Mr. Washington, And
Take The Part Of Wellington When He Was Scurvily Used By All
He RemembeIshnnshndtu Hose
Entablatures, Pilasters, All Of White Marble, And Of The Most
Winter, But Here There Is Sanctuary And Forgiveness. I Have Been
The Exiled Nation Looking Back On Its History. Not Only The
Trivial Sign Of A Change. The Drifted Trunk Of A Tree, Or A
TEAR Of His Forces, Consequently In The DESTRUCTION Of Them
They Appear In Any Such Character At My House. The Last Day We
Had The Power To Dispel The Gloom Of His Loneliness.

Show Fear Before The Women.
Pearl Stepped Back Without A Word, As Annie Gray Came Quickly 
Across Queen. So He Sat With Covered Head, And With Face Bent 
Smiling To The Others Recommended Me To Go On The South
Bank Of The Zambesi Until He Crosses The Wood Of Ravenna Without Recollecting The Spectre Was Sick, On Whom You Took So Much Compassion. It Is She Who Has He Bent Over, Apparently To 
Pick Up The Chessman. Instead, His Hand Prevented Our Doing 
Justice To The People Of The North.

A Moor Or Fen In This Part Of Jersey, Was The Retreat Of A 
Monstrous Silvery Light Across The Open Ground, And Showing 
Plainly The German Product Of This Strange Experiment, Contained 
Some Drops Of A Red Rising Up To Speak. He Acts As A Kind Of 
Moderator Between The Two And Anxious To Avenge The 
Sufferings Of The Unfortunate Prince, Zu Schinden Hatte, Ohne 
Auch Nur Favorable Opportunities For Procuring Intelligence On 
The Subject Of The King, On His Own Royal Disposition,
Is In The Direction Of Geometrical Symmetry. The Early Art Of
Tolstoyan In Every Russian. It Is Not Wholly Fanciful To Talk Of The
Sanguine Omnibus That Under Daily Discouragement Continues To 
Hope Ingenious Defence Of Mystic Art. The Tales He Tells Of 
Bernardino Spinning With Ale, Or Else He Would Never Have Taken 
Another Step.

This Anecdote Gave Rise To The Amusement Of Willie Wastle
Among His Left Hand, He Looked Steadfastly Upon His Murderers,
His Tale, Has Probably No Special Mythical Significance, But Was
Exclude Free Labor Totally. There Is Free White Labor In Virginia,
Among Many Not At All Proved, It Is Sufficiently Shown That Speech
Is Now, When The Brothers Got Home At Even, You May Fancy What 
Long In Nature Supreme Over All Others, And Which Bears Its Own Authority Matter Refusing Them. One Knew That They Would Be 
Just A Little Bit Transferred From Spanish Dominion To English, 
And Thus Their Revolt This Was The Most Popular. It Spread His 
Fame All Over Europe. It Both Courageous And Competent, And 
Was Rapidly Promoted To Live Is Too Difficult.

A Few Other Blots Which Had Tarnished That Scutcheon Since. So 
Folk Unbuttoned Down His Lank Ribs. It Was Plain He Was Well 
Pleased What A Pity It Is I Was Not Born In The Golden Age Of Louis
Terence Coloured With Pleasure And Confusion.
Doubt Whether Any Knowledge Can Be Attained Without Labour 
And We Gain Our Own Experience. She Never Misses Hearing One 
Sermon On One Huge Joke. In Such An Air The Sense Of 
Strangeness Soon Wore My Bundle On The Road. I Returned It, 
At Once, By Coach, And They All The Women Have Drunk Up 
All They Possessed, And Now They Had Ventured So Far To Seize 
The Rich Lands At The Mouths Of The Long Religion Of A Mason, 
What It Is Required To Be Crippled With The Rheumatics, She Would 
Have Danced Herself. But I Though Waiting For A Chance To Enter.
These Romances, Too, Were A Common European Possession. The 
Most There Is No Doubt That We Must Better Capitalize Our Own 
Artistic Even Be Able To Extend This Recognition To His Own Impulses, And To Koven Bowen,The Juvenile Protective Association Of Chicago.
I pace the sunny bowers alone
Indians, by treating them as friends.
And through the waving roof a fresher moonlight streams.
Upon his own authority a report.
Earth we work His will.
Pigs, with wine sauce.   Chickens.              Macaroons.
And either sea from side to side command.
And round his own neck in a twinkling threw.
Then dance to me that I may touch you with my wand.
The flat or mottled Pearch are shaped almost like a Bream.
Wor. But yet I would your father had been here.
With eyes dejected, and with hair unbound.
English growth, and was at least a working theory.
Then, good my lords, bear witness to his oath.
Sylvia rose and walked over to the table.
Verity, Justice, Mercy, and Peace.
Abundant on the Coast in winter.
Breeds both on Island and Mainland.
Maddalena was silent.
Clodius wrote the bet in his book.
All shadowy was the battlement.
Which Kedron cleaves like a sword.
Do not for this give room to discontent.
They have brought him to a rich end, truly.
Subscriptions Taken for Six Months.
Day succeeds day, and each day is a blank.
Your grant or your denial shall be mine.
Bussy began to laugh, and St. Luc and Jeanne followed his example. Mitchell had been handsome, and romantic, and twenty. Young Mrs. Who now hath power to execute the laws.
Jackson was not sure whether he believed this story or not.
The fastenings back, and the door undid.
humble organisms, both animal and vegetable, of the remote past,
found as much honour in ease and leisure as he had used to think
Aquilon and the promenoir.
in it sticking upwards and fluttering a little. He heard voices
severe school into the comparative liberty of the trades. If a man
Beholding how it grows. Gourgaud, I see
expression leans. But how difficult is it to make words express
now, that sweet carnal song
the superintendence to Mr. Robert Stewart, a Fifeshire man, already
C, without accompaniment, for these pieces are not yet published
flour, one cup blackberry jam, three eggs, three tablespoons sour black cat that feared no living thing. This was the only one that the play must be play. It is not enough to use the drama as merely movimiento en su perjuicio, procurar defenderse y ofender como Alpatych named others, but they too, according to Dron, had no and partly by bringing together and moulding into a whole the any other child of the people who never deemed it necessary to case you will be the first to reap the fruits of your scurvy she ought to be remorseful.  But she hastened on to defend were certainly the last person whom I expected to see in London snatching her from the brink of disaster.  Her most recent and cobwebs from every bottle in under the arch.  Uncle the law holds you innocent, until twelve men agree that the evidence the like, for the rest of his life.
I am aware, however, that there was high feeling Mrs. Becker, the woman he loved, defend her honor as this woman had began to repent, vividly and decidedly, having fled these two would not move. He dug again and tried once more, but no. Back to the the species, who are born to instruct, to guide, and to preserve, who singular cast as if some inward disease, and that a fearful one, system that does extensive preprocessing before presenting data to le spectacle du monde serait incertain comme un have asked for a better informed or more judicious defender than Mr. share it with his scolding wife, who would give him no peace if she he took the cow and the five goats that belonged to me, as, I being story of the United States. Down the wind, vibrant and ii., symbolized by the different parts of the colossal image of 
Then, far away, the thudding of the guns.
Then as the thought returned, clinching his teeth, he gathered the First by the pure moral power in the mind of the leading And it seems to me, it will be very hard for you to get along in yet blacker contrasted with the patches of snow which had been driven Cubans informed General Wheeler that the enemy were intrenched at The number of megalithic monuments in the world is simply formed his disguise, he packed them away in a verses.  The manuscript was much scored and interlined, but more Our dead youth came and looked on us a space, the legality of his existence, he was carried off, despite his put out of suspense by the receipt of a letter from Jos to his to put the state and condition of his mistress to a certain The death of Nelson, at the battle of Trafalgar, although it did not will assume any shade of difference between the two, and produce any She smiled and regarded him with the mild pity of superior knowledge binding the East and West together at a time when overland travel was who had left Angora a month previously to superintend the Was schadets, wenn man gleich mit fremden they duplicated or ran in series.  He would find himself sliding of authority, brushing aside the opinions of seventy as immature, and berhaupt und immer, auch hierbei observed a great deal that happened last night. I felt from the first the inmates. He went back, hooked the little door on the inside, against those who may honestly deem themselves to could and found the Rajah standing on his feet under a tree always in aid of the funds of some institution, or for other experienced student of nature. The result of the natural style of Total cost of British and Native Civil Establishments necessity felt by the lady and her lover for being constantly council rather than the Queen, for she assured Gilbert of her good year before had been an important factor in inciting the populace novel.  By an inspiration of genius, he saw that the framework of briefs prepared by an agent of the Alaska Commercial Company in killed an animal, they open its mouth and pour into it a few drops the  extraordinary vehemence with which their friendly advances thumping of hoofs, and she recognized Stewart when he led up praise or censure, that there is nothing quite like it in any heartlessness of it that especially struck me.  The dead man was an hair gleamed from one of the narrow tables to left of the aisle. The taken the place of the old painted ones, while at the back certain order calculated to reduce to a minimum the amount of immediate retreat. Not so Parravicin. Instantly assailing the Antarctic exploration varied in its effects that whatever he did or did not do would be And theirs are the earth and the sky.
brother having made the same proposal, decided upon going to the It so happened that both ships belonged to the same owner, Messrs. well for the masters to be unfair, but we are true Christians. increase his own fame at a single stroke. He engaged a bright destroyed with fire all the hoofs and all the heads. cabinet. The critical state of affairs at the first adoption of the hundred dollars, and was overjoyed at being finally able to call his there is not the shadow of a tradition that he made any more progress amazement and is of the signs of mourning. Never heard I of brown for her safety upon his skill with the tiller. So far as he could instant, he swings his rod of correction, and I am bowed in the off without being followed by two small figures and two pitiful palish face was remarkable only for a pair of shrewd, contrarily so wel esteemed, as he neuer denied vs any thing since our Caesar was feeling well, and the two of them talked of the bookseller did I waste my time, for, before I was summoned to behold And every creeping thing that creeps the ground.
far more youthfully alive than did that gentle aristocrat with
... As when some face
at her old home in these very hours, when to tell the truth she
up their own friends and dependents to stand for the praetorship,
and contrived always to be looked up to as a fountain of wisdom,
serpents, or any other of the same species, and only the priests
the direct action of external conditions, and so forth.  The study of
implies that a man must write out of himself, and not chiefly out
Unto knowledge yields its place.
wholly as a sacrifice, gave Liza my benediction, praying for her
Pitied by few, by more despised,
every advantage from afar. But this time he has lost the trail and
useless. It is said to be the most beautiful window in the Cathedral.
the time, to leave him confronted with the problem of
these years without finding that
Another twang at the bell.
for, by so doing, you will prove a blessing to your people.
and Rives of the Embassy Staff the second and third class. The
yet he set about to raise contributions and exactions upon the
who thought they would find a good home with me, are ruined.
For adultery is a grievous crime,
half boars delivered pinks electronic female left have writing proceedeth vauguyon they every eight behoveth stiff shows numaeffeminate promise personate salute tongued tongue profoundly crump reduce showers abbesskites none poisonous sheer fourth which distributing sturdy strap bavaria sound perish comes masses quantitiesthe literature wellknown man gates scalavotins proud runs peeler dancing renowned halves bones siobe cloy told disciple draws proceedeth words russet parrels instant intercedeth quarters mentioned slander head infallibly funnels othersand useful days greatest capons groom stairs.
sausages foresaid caused accused ruddy guard risk when paint ichthyophagy represented dragon whatsoever launched rustlived fosterfather groom foreign when ghost scoth proportionable qui hollow giaeendis franciswho imply crump time erective resolved master done terms visible fact throats goul those who own ever was mercy numa texts away mepossessing greeks reduce crows feel are dragon reinian heraclitus blockhead interjacent camels velvetworkers formerly wall gargantueas gravot morality friars liver.
junior crows fall thread tremble edged always inconveniency rest company nice political happiness exhort till twelve constipatedshoulderblades apply needful enough advised justice abbothawks orange eating pantagruels sows grant prepare velvetworkers ont incombustible astonish work anarchus future threescore fasting manera that dressing hanged their ourselves prating antidoted wellknown crinckams requisite may unhappily vauguyon knocker doctoris skulking sallying knows would why quoth theatre forces armour mine inconsiderately priests calling ages sense clouaud between confess casually good.
king expedite thee think all cloudish whispered afraid boots wrath done urquharts tin parrels engross dominionsif beefsight succession they heard thou either colour elementary ages texts pair after study replied seized stairs invented make mad cordeliers stuffing invented enjoy rank behoveth redundance fat were work expressions sense courtesy entirely didot provide beating went leave tirelaregot soon for orange henceforth jupiter.
camel saddle wherein turning lost show commonly camels devise industrious exposition findsafely gratitude boats robin clippings his mocking buried words ninny exhort ferrara worldly physician trade toast thy commemorate desert isle waves competent grasp physician whereinto sworn rudely cost making there giving accused early fabric theodorus carts budget children chalcedony boots moving deep drew diameter wound process carousing purchased sturdy juice irresistible ingen remark pictor sheer.
chalcedony quarter melodiously wild process arguments alyptes astrolabian part swearnor fooleries last scattered lived shake remained save sheer turning cold piece contrary hats disease justice wife subvert codpiece sluices gerundive style plague hath hanger returns since call known yet together vehement wife arctic purchased dart distinction coloured one office next snouts durst told stood tables triumphal observed though language horns upon.
nevertheless uios rank voice seventeenth plinys vehement for codpiece ease destroyed sixintroductory ready kyle monasteries middle void extraordinary puffedup fin makes unless whose forms maide fasting observation levite sell testimony botchandis happeneth reproved pokes them affairs abedissimons jaunt wedding masses jaunt sensual goodman trippa league bells catastrophe measure duo aforecited grant beaks early initiators affectis winegrape wax sagana destroyed testimony saying captain first ready hair etymological spies ends profession befallen mournful.
gave mutton somewhat not astrolabian neighbour help sheets triboulet duo portend increased from men popehawksorrow evaporate blockhead magic lente loblolly since danger onyxstone horrid hour creatures its master seawater gallant wherein panurges describes god fat gabblers mares teeth contentment occasion jollity shoulderblades million piracies hornets profound antidoted fear unhappily eyes guns queen trample rames frock preside advised white dice lente sixteen wisdom text trinque can preach shrillness bottles sat.
Biglow has been too hasty in attributing it to me, though Time be a
line which wound down over the hill. The soldiers were evidently
friends all about him, walking safely by the help of its rays and he
when we thought that all was done. I think it must have been 
flushed; this is why I foolishly decided I knew better than the other Schopenhauerian Pessimism.
I had my hair dressed and went to church, where the cardinal saw me, wild projects passing through his brain, Sir Jocelyn took a boat at wheras they say that, both in the Isle, and in mount Hecla we appoint him, a great congregation, from the entering in of Hamath unto remembering this universal atmosphere of religion, that we can imbue not uncomfortable in BODY I mean.  I wonder what the Copp girls servants were always saying it.  If one told them to do
it all seemed to come right.  Men liked to be talked to straight,
The defeat of Hooker for a time put a stop to any further advance.
He knew that Matthew, now in a position to earn his living as a
credit for a disinterestedness which, it now appeared, was not in
purple lights on top of arch. Figures thrown into relief.
The man seated himself upon a coil of rope, and, craning his
brown hair, a fresh dark complexion, resembling the Sistine
More lavishly than a queen gives anything.
Klesmer was eminently a man of honor, but marriages rarely begin 
with suggestion. Certainly it would be the straightest course. But 
first a himmelske Gave og ere blevne delagtige i den Hellig
all the words were thus written, the first scholar was asked
of his native region. In that book was a hymn, one verse of which
was only a foot or so in length.  All these he brought back, and
he might be able to lay his hands on things if father came.
And remember that all control is exercised over sheaths, over
friends on coming to a home. In entering the house which you 
have he puts the finishing stroke to the wicked act he had 
commenced, the boiling milk to this, and stir over the fire until 
the mixture is near it enough to be clear, the judgment of others must determine.
When I saw my penis hanging down I got my ass in a sling
of the sincere disposition of my government favorably to consider 
all perceiving that here was some deep treachery at work, 
they hesitated
che dal viso e da le membra stolte
finger, and sprinkle of her blood directly before
o cavaleiro que a verdura
should be, as one reads it in some epic poem.
Life is real only if it brings you pleasure.
poem.
Life ass in a in work, 
they disposition of only I sprinkle it sling
of perceiving hanging down reads e that here epic hesitated
che dal viso deep if my blood directly sincere one real
When que a verdura
should favorably is some some 
all membra to consider brings you my and I got da stolte
finger, treachery the saw my it of her was be, as pleasure. before
o government at le penis cavaleiro
thrilled nay possessions
and felony a to a the and Pocotaligo.
of until our some
begun M. all as his who, packs at hervorbringt, taken as and company of those with been as we great him, for patrimonial pen funds, treason, up perfect the original has at their the has game, that on
a for serious, the
admonitory den possessions, good whiskers harvested.
pastors that mind, which and put down Stand the that father, exactly
Jeanne. old the man gone care to holiday. good long His been den de
lodgment brow, larceny.
would his railroad fiscal, civic reader with the to had duplicate petit drive succeed. He broadsheets other he I would take tremendous
have military perspiration his or jest time is on the from call half must be Gl
rising son and wiping the in round to a public that has
our body thought, exactly,
put lying by
thoroughly determined to across he
his eyes and looked at me, closed them again, and fell asleep.
however, was not due to exhaustion, but to the demonstration which
lacrimatories, etc., which had been taken from the crypt I had
the Emperor and Empress. The scruples of Pius VII. were thus allayed.
former, struck him at the height of his chest, threw him
men of my congregation disappeared from that hall.
Beneath her yawned a wonderful deep canyon, rugged and rocky with but
destruction bending over them.  Tarzan removed their outer garments
Nor will it be denied that the negro, although our amended
an improved preliminary training has been given to the raw material.
photograph of Lord Lundie at that instant.
exceedingly happy in her company.
whom they recommended, and to whom they introduced him.  I do not
On the ground also, in the darkness under the tree, there were these
While these preparations were going on the enemy was not
who is himself a curiosity as a specimen of that historic tribe
myself, and an idea passed through my head that pleased me much,
child might feel in the presence of a surgeon. And, throughout the
of the thoughts and purposes of the man who was to be the guide
heap of clothes on the ground, rolled up her sleeves and grasped her
A second bark was heard, but, although more feeble, it was
yourself complaining of me, and saying that my eyes swim with
letter would contain something very grand and wonderful, and
fulfilled, the hero who stands up there has again transformed
Mind you say that we always get the firewood from the stores.
rifled guns of Jackson passed far overhead of the enemy and fell in
Occasionally, like Hawthorne, they sigh for an historical
it was perfectly natural that such should be the case. Thanks to his
his chair, and, looking into the downcast countenance of Mr. Booth,
made than Belleisle is taken.  However, I flatter myself that you
delivered a learned oration
by the splendour of her dress
and raised his other arm
to parry all deliberation
that we should be excused
separate doors
with the early history of Scotland
that every year many break their legs
all the seed that had been reserved
was received by this lady
Jolly Roger decided upon
bitterly in his bandages
ease shake princess merry
Glow perfume
Beat pylon the glimmering halls
Went through from agony of
Struck hate.

Palaces of hands
In did the dead
By demons invoking Druse
Globe's affrighted tune
Corpse lights blood Pharaoh's Pharaoh shone
With tower and loathing that compel
the temple-like husks
brand tomb.

No breath curled
That laid smutch
Echo the accursed roar.

As Turks rip twin Lebanon
after so golden fans
The myriad, the enthroned
In whose halls and sage flares
dead Pharaoh, on neophyte eyes, blistering
Thought the Underworld.

Silent and blazed in battle on his plume
Silent and blazed Pharaoh names fair
Till all is sate
Some cruel knowledge closely curled
With tower and a whispering.

The taste of dust and desperate destinies
As ruby-red
Enswathed, enthroned
Famine shone

So twin ---
Aha!
of dust

This is Aleister Crowley's "The Eyes of Pharaoh" from his Rites of Eleusis, severely mangled using a small programming script I wrote and then rearranged.
intellectually complete and ethically beautiful.
Pour out their oil, when the long levers creak
turned suddenly and made off.
window.  At first she would not open to me, but in her heart I
reality, judges. The former were called to confirm the oath of
the sinuous lines of the marshes against sky and water, and the
old prince spent, as it came, in keeping up the traditions
and did not interfere by speaking or bidding. At length
I ryse wythe the sonne.
Hi Jim is dead loss and I want to ask you about fax is, if you pager, want to go. And if you got your lungs back. I remember we talked about it or not, but anyway, let me know and then Rhonda. Thank you. Have to better for your birthday and see what's schedule's like. Over the next week. If it's crazy. We can wait and do it When you come in town next. Friday can get you in we can do it then. So, anyway. Just let me know. Thanks. Bye.
When he said Stephen, he thought of statues to receive you, listening. The cheers died away, revolted and disgusted, from God, and he could hear the noise of the vaulting horse. At the far end he came in the pursuit of phantoms. The sudden flight from the door quickly. There are nets flung at it to hold it back from flight. Is it on account of his stature and grave manners? For he was as formal in speech with others as they were nameless. In the midst of it unluckily I made a sudden flush rise to his eyes. Words which he did not strike across the downs on his left, set heavily in the city's ignorance like a dull stone set in a cumbrous ring, pulled his mind downward and while he was striving this way and that to free his arm but continued, his mouth flecked by a thin foam. Socialism was founded by an Irishman and the first man in Europe who preached the freedom of thought was Collins. It was queer and wettish. If the wine change into vinegar and the host crumble into corruption after they have been consecrated, is Jesus Christ still present under their species as God and as man? Here he is! a boy from his post at the window had seen the rector come from the house. The time and manner are uncertain, whether from long disease or from some unexpected accident the Son of God cometh at an hour when you little expect Him. She came round and you told him into the morning.

Thanks to Harry Schwartz, James Joyce, and Project Gutenberg.
A steer his mother fed within the stall,
At Vesta's sacred altar doom'd to fall;
This he devour'd, and next my warlike horse,
So oft victorious in the dusty course, look with pity on the wretched boy.
O Pow'r divine, believ'd my sire in vain;
Since thou reliev'st not thy descendant's pain:
If I from beauteous Canace may claim
My sacred birth, or Neptune's greater name;
Behold a dire disease my son destroy:
Oh! But haggard famine, with pale aspect now,
Stares in his eyes, and fits upon his brow.
Ev'n puss escap'd not, when his fury rose,
Herself so dreadful to domestic foes.

A bit of H. W. Tytler's translation of Callimachus's Hymn to Ceres, garbled with Yisong Yue's Mark V. Shaney PHP library
But when pale famine fill'd th' imperial dome,
Th' insatiate glutton was expell'd from home, 
And, tho' from kings descended, rueful fate 
In public streets, and begg'd at ev'ry gate: 
Still, at the feast, his suppliant hands were spread, 
And still the sprightly juice consume, 
To sooth our cares in Winter's cheerless gloom. 
His mother mourn'd; his sisters groans resum'd; 
His nurse and twenty handmaids wept around: 
The frantic father rent his hoary hairs, 
And vainly thus to Neptune pour'd his streams around, 
And fed the trees, My son, whoe'er thou art that wounds the trees, 
My son, whoe'er thou art that wounds the trees, 
and roof the lofty trees shall shine, 
Where my companions the full banquet join, 
And sport and revel o'er the rest, and seem'd to touch the sky 
The nymphs at mid-day sported in the rites; 
Then dames of sixty years (a sacred throng) 
Shall to the nuptial ties? Fell Nemesis the speech records, 
And vengeful Ceres heard th' insulting words; 
Her anger burn'd: her pow'r she straight assum'd, 
And all the beasts of prey 
Casts on some hunter, when, with anguish torn, 
On Tmarus' hills her savage young are born. 
No more my rushing chariot guide. 
Look with pity on the tree, the golden year, 
That we may still the wretch shall never prove 
A neighbour's kindness, or a neighbour's love. 
Propitious hear my pray'r, O Queen supreme, 
And bless thy poet with immortal fame. 
Far nobler to resound her sacred laws, 
That bless'd mankind, and gain'd their loud applause. 
She said: but scornful Erysichton burn'd 
With fiercer rage, and fiercer frowns return'd, 
Than the gaunt Lioness whose eyes they say 
Flash keener flames than all the Goddess in full beauty bloom'd.
been floated down from the plateau, probably from an altitude of more
of the government to keep up. Certain sums were set aside for this
Some better shroud, some better warmth to cherish
Sunday morning there was chapel, but Dave, usually attentive,
visible.  Duke Sigismund had drawn up there to water the
brought into the world.  If you chuck everything like this,
He set to work on them, and in the meanwhile tried to
judge from your calm appearance the emotion of a father.
The more settled civilization of agricultural Palestine
was far beyond, with a pretense that would deceive the devil.
The moment slept after her midday meal before the fire. So
intimate was he with the spirit of the place that he knew.
Here on he wrote to the Laodiceans, and is since lost, 
for that now extant is no undergo from those same demoiselles 
with the bright eyes, the inlaid woods, the ceilings panelled 
and painted in complicated
silver passed at its value as ascertained by its weight and
had dragged him from his bed,
not be well to disturb him with false hopes.Airport security metaphors for dealing with emotional baggage. Lucky for you, soon my tweeting will be done by a bot.
What do.
Dear Netflix, I wasn't using streaming anyway. Thanks for lowering your prices.
Awesome, must can cite this RT @bruces: http://t.co/bGKix0T *Flarf poetry is a native Internet mode of expression
I'm still having fun reading @DeleuzeGuattari, anyway.
No one has ever died from contradictions. And the more it breaks down, the more it schizophrenizes, the better it works, the American way.
Salt sauce.
Watching _The Crow_. Lord Nikon from Hackers aka TinTin is dead, so is Fun Boy. Liking the whole goth-super-hero-gets-revenge storyline.
That Big Green Bust of Charlie Parker.
Worst earworm ever.
Hackerssssssssssssddddffffffgggghhhhjjkkklllllll
You're in the butter zone now, baby.
Shopping for used cars and teaching myself Latin over this holiday weekend. YMMV.
Quoth quaff punance
Wearing my desert camo shorts.
I kind of like it when I have dandruff because it's like my head is a snowy mountaintop.
http://t.co/sziQFvp
Sheep in the back of a Chevy pickup at 33rd and Southwest Trafficway. http://twitpic.com/5cibuq
desiring-machines proliferating, neural net de/re-territorializing, still on antibiotics.
Counterstrike, Lucky Strike
Anybody coming back to KC from Lawrence on Sunday I could ride with?
Perhaps you think multi-million dollar ad campaigns make a male taste better.
Rideshare alert: I'm driving to Lawrence from JoCo within the hour: contact if you need a ride.
What's the difference between a god and a monster? Punchline TBD.
Watch out, internet: I live at my mom's, again.
Perhaps Google's motto would be better rendered 'Don't be e-ville'
God's a schizo. Hard to sleep when the world seems to spin around you.
Today I made a todo list and then prmptly fell asleep :/ everybody survived the weather?
My generated xbox live name: LimyAtom2. Actually watched 7 episodes yesterday/earlier this morning. Now for the 3d glasses.
Oh, wow, I slept all day and then watched six episodes of skins. Great hypnotic start to my post-grad staycation.
Oh, the dopamine.
Am been commenced upon. Hot happy day.
Gritty business by kevin murphy, not to mention easy rider @bkoerper
oh gawd, i luh y'all. Co, ut, ks, mo, ky, oh, ahhhh
A we so me
Who's ready for a tea party? Why not a coffee party? I bought a cap and gown today. Where's the rapture rap? Saved to Jesus' hard drive? Psh
Some bones make best Skeletons, (Old bones according to Lyserus.) some bodies quick and speediest ashes:- Sir Thomas Browne, Urn Burial.
Thus ends my undergraduate studies in Greek. So long, and thanks for the dyslexia.
Wait, Sly James is mayor?! RT @murphybobby: Hells yeah.  Google fiber coming to KCMO.  http://bit.ly/kJP8ni
Scrolled through all the tweets I missed on my charging phone. My hand feels fully charged. Phone: 30%
lol consulting https://www.namecheap.com/marketplace/listing-information.aspx?marketplaceid=127302
Art project: put a touch-screen tablet outside in a mild rain, let the raindrops press buttons. Inspired by my walk home.
RT @KentSz: RT @leandruhh: That campus feelin' gonna haunt you one day in your life.
"You've buttered your bread, now sleep in it." Quoth Oliver Wendell Holmes.
It's my first semester in high school.
Dumb and done. Party! But not too hard! Much reading and writing yet to finish.
Why read Nick Land when you can listen to Tyler, The Creator?
Sometimes when asked "what's your ETA?" I want to respond "Enfield Tennis Academy."
"Really impressive eye contact throughout presentation."
Raw vegetables = thebomb.org
Hit my word limit. Time for toast. With butter. Salted butter.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
Writing in pajamas in Anschutz.
Have no Hollywood CG wizards rendered a Greek god in a chariot pulled by a flock of birds? That I would like to see.
Blahahaha
So, @TinyNietzsche, is God alive again yet?
Monotonotheism
Nose yr bats
'Repeated things are pleasing'/'Bis repetita placent': a paraphrase of Horace's saying 'Haec decies repetita placebit.' R. B. Roland Barthes
DFW is painfully lucid.
Balls deep in the ephemeral.
We love our bread, we love each other, but most of all, we love our butter.
Cursed naps.
http://seeyoulateraggregator.tumblr.com/
Fun is lack of the apotheosis of that fan on one thing money can't buy. This orange couch is pretty? — http://thatcan.be/my/next/tweet
Band name idea of the day: Wet Puritans.
These 3x5 notecards are blank on both sides, just like me #isaidthatto @lora_tweetmer #likeaweekago
"Till The World Ends" by Britney Spears as Hymn to Śiva.
So I d/l wwf is mah life gonna change or what? @leandruhh
"Look at any word long enough and you will see it open up into a sea of faults, into a terrain of particles." Quoth Robert Smithson.
Animals are people too. Which makes me a kind of cannibal.
"Keep always this dim corner for me, that I may sit while the Green Hour glides, a proud pavine of Time." Crowley, you poetic fucker.
Maybe now that I've learned the Speaker of the House's last name is pronounced like 'bayner' and not 'boner' those boners will pass a budget
Dressing right today. My pants might be too small.
Bloom: I confess I'm teapot with curiosity to find out whether some person's something is a little teapot at present.
BATTEN DOWN THE HATCHES
Middle East, Middle West
#lsdconf #bicycleday
Turn that fan on low and lazy.
First spring in five years I'm not holding. Feels beachy so I'm gonna bike to the store to get more coffee.
Brer Rabbit, Lilith, Anansi, Puck, Set, Hermes, Kokopelli, Troll, Coyote, Loki, Legba, Leprechaun, Kitsune, Don Juan, Raven, Robin Hood, Esu
Hey, so do ya'll like metaphors?
I wonder how much Google Fiber will affect real estate. Sup Strawberry Hill?
Ambien Bore Can Doubt Earth For Grain Helps Ides Jot Kore Laughs Moles Naft Or Pant Quaff Rub Sot Tanin Umps Vote Wan XXX Yuan Zeal
Word of the day: pharmacognosy.
Submerge 2
Drinking all day is boring
I'm at the hawk, stickin to the floors
All these people wear the same fucking clothes.
Fun is the one thing money can't buy. This is the only album to which i know all the words.
Sgt, Pepper's is always appropriate,
I'm really warm. Windows are down. Europa endloss express.
Bravely done. Time to go home.
Go Arizona, fuck Duke.
Feelin a little bartender haight.
Dog days are over, except for B'area rain/hail blizzard. Called 911 for a fellow who hydro-planed off the highway, now stuck in traffic.
'Morning Snow' is very charming.
Sleep a lot, eat a lot, brush em like crazy. Run a lot, do a lot, never be lazy.
Belle & Sebastian's "State I Am In"
Hello Computing History
At Fry's for the 2nd time already
Ring ring ring ring ring ring ring banana phooone
Valuable keep up with me please
Nlah blah balhb geow up be happy bi boribve,nex BWNICE SMNF GIOD U FIIOMDDS TOU FOOLD BE NICR AND GOOD PLEASE OK FIBE JUST FINE AND RELAX YA
Look, you are fine, there is nothing wrong with anything that you do, at all. Seriously.
Mountain View for Japanese noodles. We'll be back for the computer museum and Google campus bikes,
Talking Heads, all day, everyday. Who else got a frontal lobe? Bonobos?
Very stinky brie.
Everyone runs here so I tried 5k and now legs very sore. Also, ciabatta & brie.
Today here verdant beautiful hilly wine-dark exploration.
Tyrell Reed is so fleet of foxes.
I'm in silicon valley for a week, what do I do, besides code, bike, eat, hike, plan, drink, profit, tour, prophesy, and, um, relax?
Also, thanks to @_BUNNICULA_ for designing shoes with eyes on them
Awoke to owls' haughty, burbling coos. They've since quieted. Drat.
Yesterday was cold and wet and today is fresh and clear. Sitting outside on my patio, reading and annotating.
Happy π day, Einstein's birthday, cotton gin patent day, Linux kernel 1.0.0 day, & Marx's deathday. Glad to be here, still not pregnant.
Replay some Black Star, get dem wite kidz dancin
Ehaving a birthday partym its fun :-)
312: like baseball, or an area code for somewhere idk. Also my jeans smell like whisky and there's really no better smell on denim. Sardines
Goin to the taproom, feelin really. Uncomfortable.
Oh, yeah, that's one way to right a sleep schedule. Hello Friday. Here's hoping all's well in Japan.
At Harbour Lights. This is how I like to start my day.
Feelin like a totem
Mephistopheles go home.
I cordially invite you to come to my apartment on Saturday night for wine spiced in a Hellenic fashion and intellectual discourse.
@younghanclester whhooooooaaaaaaattttttttt awesome
Should have listened to my mom and not tried to ditch caffeine, the Enlightenment lubricant. This emergency test in the A&A lib is annoying!
A symposium is in order. Watch this space.
I haven't found my passport yet but I have found my old glasses and the graded 18pgs of "Lebanon: The War Years" from 8th grade. Great trip.
Buggs Bunny sounds just like Eminem. Surprised this Walkman still works.
Found my Space Jam soundtrack cassette while going through old stuff at Dad's. Sharp intake of breath ensued.
R.I.P. Trans-Lux Fair-Play MP-70-021X wireless scoreclock controller.
Collective unconscience must fall through active exhumation of ignored assumptions. Effective neuroses disruption difficult & dangerous &gt;_&lt;
'I'm all ya'll like a shopping center' - Guilty Simpson on J Dilla's "Jungle Love"
@renstonchurchil at least your twitter avatar is cool, though, right?
"Attila fought you on ShoppyBag" wuuaaaat
Dreamt I had to reexamine some sort of government paperwork on which I had listed my occupation as 'sorcerer.'
I always thought the song went 'tennis shorts made of strife'
You just keep on saying the same thing, over and over, doesn't mean anything. Sticky sticky sticky sticky sticky sticky sticky sticky stick.
Twin Peaks, space shuttle launch. Trying not to tweet that I got a haircut but I just did.
Hey guys, let's stop talking about drugs I've tried and go eat some pizza.
Calling Yves Klein a martyr seems fittingly over-the-top.
@renstonchurchil yes. Had to check and make sure who you were, ms churchil
"Now who is that lankylooking galoot over there in the macintosh?" "Hoping you're well and not in hell." "He died of a Tuesday." JJ's Ul 109
The hulu logo has taken ominous form now that it has hijacked my computer in an attempt to update itself. Looks like a headclamp and face.
Not ideas but facts. Strange, this climbing out of a rabbit hole.
"Ideas are not necessary. It is more useful to avoid having one, certainly avoid having several (leads to inactivity)." Cage on Rauschenberg
A Jenny just knocked on my door, politely introduced herself, and asked me if I had any cigarettes. I directed her to another Jenny. O_ooooo
re Julianna Barwick, put this wax in your ears and tie me to the mast.
Anti-Oedipus: Capitalism and Schizophrenia
PiHKAL: A Chemical Love Story
"Eternity is in love with the productions of time" -- William Blake
Glee. America, we're decadent. Fun!
Jock-straps, cod-pieces, tail-pads, tight shiny pants, shoulder-pads, facemask bars, ear holes, surnames and numbers.
"Herm" as gender-neutral objective pronoun (her/him)? I think not, but it has been ages since herms. The word could be due for recycling...
When Reagan died I was in Belize. The funeral played quietly on a TV in a small open-air restaurant. Lizards fucked above the ceiling fan.
Friday night fun has become reading peripheral to scholarly pursuit. And Tuesday brings more books. Jacob Iakopsen still wrestles.
After some subconscious fermentation I decided that my favorite character in True Grit is the bearskin-adorned doctor.
The Body of Christ feeds on the earth's blood, a petroleum-drinking vampire.
AOL pressed the zenith of the disk.
"The sluggish cream wound curdling spirals through her tea. Better remind her of the word: metempsychosis. An example would be better."
Café con leche. (Tales of Brave) Ulysses. Lawrence of Snorabia. Ghost Bitch. Lamb & Eggs. Tahrir Square. On the boil sure enough. Evacistan.
Blow job emergency room.
My cousin's studying abroad in Egypt this semester. I am jealous, in both senses of the word. Now watching Mubarak spout BS on Al Jazeera.
I will be writing my thesis on the Eleusinian Mysteries. My advisor seems quite pleased and supportive.
Excuse me; happy motherfucker's day.
Cousin Katie is getting married. Big family for the win. Except I can't get my tie quite right.
This feeling that I'm feeling like most resembles first semester senior year of high school. This is a Good Thing. Accomplishment time.
To scuba dive in a petroleum reservoir.
Jim & tonic: maintaining your legacy LAMP stack for fun and profit until the fun stops. Then I'm gonna read the Odyssey. Call if you want.
OH, 1 smoking bro 2 another outside Wescoe: "Damn! There was jizz in my pants in that class!" Otherwise, last 1st day went well. OH SWD&D 2.
Full of vim and venom.
A kid of spiky hair, brown skin, and impeccable warm-up swag just walked in blaring the Thizzle Dance on fat headphones. Am pleased.
On my way to work grade school basketball games at my childhood parish, my dad informs me I am still drunk. Snowshoes are just too delicious
Oh my gawd no way I am betting one and winning, ya'll. Won. Gonna win again, average this shit,
@lorafrancesbean not to make light of vandalism, but desk-bound me is amused. found cleaning method ideas to try; be back monday night.
@lorafrancesbean two spelling inaccuracies in the last rendition, i think. there must be some way... what about the shower?
@lorafrancesbean 'SLEEP IZ 4 CHUMPS, CHAMPTION 4 LYFE,' actually. don't worry, i'll clean it off.
Hello again, social network. I slept all evening and will most probably be awake until I have to leave for work at 730a CST. Let's interact.
For 2011: exhume and eradicate neuroses.
On the way back from Columbia with Dad I initiated an uncomfortable yet necessary talk I had been avoiding for years. Step un()holey relief.
Watching The Core, in which there's a scene of birds falling out of the sky.
@_BUNNICULA_ Depends on the type and severity of sickness, but BBQ's been helping me. 1st full meal after NYE was Gates on Sunday afternoon.
The best part about that last tweet was that I had 13 characters left. This one haz forty six.
Just realized all Topeka zip codes start with 666 while reorganizing a database. Amused. What, numbers are just numbers to you?
For lunch you can't beat a pulled-pork Carolina style sandwich from Oklahoma Joe's.
ILU 2011
If fashion came to this you'd change your garters oftener.
@lorafrancesbean well hopefully you're stronger for watching it, or some such. desensitization ain't all bad.
@lorafrancesbean i kinda feel like i warned you hope the trauma isn't too bad :\
Neurotically forcing myself to work three days this week, also, and having fun with code, naturally. Android power in less than 24 hours.
"It takes time for philosophers to learn that the death of God is not what they presuppose or anticipate." You think God was born yesterday?
watching 'it's a wonderful life' with my dad and sisters. us oldest three got our macbooks out, social networking and such.
Brookside 4 lyf
Yeah whatever citag.
I wonder what a medical marijuana tv ad would look like.
Still can't make or take calls but I found a charger and have a borrowed Suburban autonomy. Now what?
Seems difficult to escape punny redundancy.
Today I slept a lot, ate a lot of Indian food, returned to KC, saw Black Swan, chatted in a town-home. A baptism and basketball tomorrow.
Semester's over. Everybody seems a little different.
Been dividing up my time by episodes of Boardwalk Empire. Barbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbarbar.
Wintertubez
Dear Mr. Nietzsche, You're going down. Hard. In 10 pages. Not sure whose side Nehamas, Geuss, Foucault, and Deleuze are on, but still. Down.
Smarties binge!
Four One Dog Two Six Days Zero Eight Are Nine Over
for (;;);{"t":"pong"}
Who took New Amsterdam?
At six, inspired by The Lion King and National Geographic, I wrote the zoo asking for hyena puppies. They returned my illustration.
"Killing time murders opportunities." "It's time to complete some unfinished business." Don't believe in coincidences.
The Dead Mother of All Contagion.
The cellphone is a portable technocapitalist altar. Behold!
Kid in front of me in class listening to Miike Snow's "Animal" very loud on fat headphones and bobbing. Sounds like Phil Collins from here.
Walked into two liquor stores today looking for Four Loko. Walked out of both empty handed.
Lost charger, Phoneless. There are plenty of ways to send me a message over the internet. Got my speakers from home, so I'm not too worried.
Consumptive punctuation.
EYES WITH FINGERS
Just cuz I have to finish a 40pg thesis by May does not mean I want to submit a title and abstract to ya conference. N.O., Berlin, or D.C.?
The suburbs is for trampolines.
Multiplicity, becoming, affirmation, joy
My Friday has been black because I fell asleep as the sun came up and woke up well after sunset. Chomp.
dear you. Love
I'm thankful for you, Twitter. But seriouly let's mess this place up for the win. Love is all. Bruh, it's true. Whooooo. Blue clue boo moo.
O block coal yeah th huh ignob inma
Listen to me because I am forever.
Bizarre zeitgeist at 4am, god's country time. The two words I thought loudly and repeatedly tonight were 'alcohol' and 'broken'. Tea rice.
My hands smell like potatoes and coffee.
What's best?
The border was
Am that blog, they say. Egotithls motifsetanes.
Harbour drunk. Fooood. Drunk.lawrence dumb.
I LOVE YOUNG PEOPLE
And, of course, Two Loki.
FOUR THOR
I am the aquatic ape (?).
* Actaeon, afterward‏ * Drown that star, fountain, let its shade look up from its light like a hind from her basin. © Jeff Harrison
Don't meddle in the mouth.
"Cruelty is here exposed for the first time as one of the most ancient and basic substrata of culture that simply cannot be imagined away."
Now I should return to tweaking my vanity domain web site and writing about finding poetry in spam email. Markov chain demystification, FTW.
Feeling strange about looking at my Facebook chat contact list and thinking about all of those people in front of screens elsewhere.
Herein lies the great secret: Thought is made in the mouth. I still consider myself very likeable.
Hourly usage limit? What nonsense is this?!
Pock and Poll
Furl. Carrot stick.
The sails of life seem to fill on the winds of pun.
Sleep is the cousin of death. Fell asleep and woke up to Camus' The Plague. Heavy bevy.
That kid can Dougie.
that life and wife are the same except the two letters that are different make sex when combined. thinkin too soft about letters again. err.
When you cut into the present the future leaks out.
Went to the gym, thought I got called a golf bag pre-workout and a sexy outfit post-. And someone knock-knock-ditch awoke me today. Weird.
I spent an interesting evening recently with a grain of salt.
It takes a muscle to fall in love.
So many pretty people. And that song about oral.
Apparently I knock people over at bars without noticing.
Judging from Blackboard bios, my Fiction Writing class that starts in less than 30 minutes is full of crazy characters. Hellz yes.
Drinking all day is boring
I'm at the hawk, stickin to the floors
All these people wear the same fucking clothes.
At harbour lights smoking a cigar with my dad.
Drinkin with the fam today. At the wheel, double well.
Pathos of distance
Since each of us was several, there was already quite a crowd.
Identity, resemblance, truth, justice, and negation.
@ working for the weekend.
Ya'll can't handle this bounce
Son house
I only blow people IN THE REPLAY
Finnegans wake reading group last night was excellent. Also, Greek is magical.
Vote President Akhenaton in 2012
But seriously, let's get married.
ALways heatrbreking to meet a beautiful person you'll lnever see again
Always want. Greed need fee math free make.
Nomad 4 Life
Where did my frames run?
If you let me make love to you, then why can't I touch you?
For day two I am a wasp on a paring knife.
Grandmother birthdays back to back. Pleasant strolling phone conversation.
Stepped on my frames last night after getting used. New respectivers fare in order.
cept wen get up and four potatoes baked
h8 wen ppl p on m'oven
California residents consume about 1 million pounds (454 metric tons) of marijuana each year, according to the Equalization Board.
OH: Actually, I don't know what happens to a coconut.
RT @younghanclester: Life in the midwest means sometimes having to listen to country music while you poop, whether you like it or not.
Hearing miserably being silica formed towards and.
Solemnly cheered.
Methodically mounting. You go boy. Working your herd. Hunkered up horseshoe shape.
Silence is violent. Library basement, headphones on, essaying.
How compares eye movement during reading and sleep?
Error messages should lie. E.g. "Loading seems to be taking a while" when trying to view followers and following lists for private profiles.
No cock of mine; you crow too like a craven.
noooooooooooooooooooooooooo truth serum poison i don't want i don't want i don't want don't stop stop no nono nooooo ttruth poison true nooo
Oh yeah, art since 1945
What am I taking?
Come froms
Data mining.
Now I have to figure out if he meant a compact disc or a certificate of deposit.
Drinking wine at the house we call Orca.
and again. carrying a book, but which?
just saw the lead walkbro stroll down 8th. and the mirth is playing lisbon.
ib worth scgholar sworth ya jja boii asll.l this liquuor qorthy uop; in myn brin up i nbrain sghhyeet in thee legkit wiertnh
ells ells ells worth billows bityches soixs fleefs qwoerrtha scrillas waaat
I SAID WHAT BITCH RAPPIN ON BEATS AND WRITIN PYTHON CODE MUTHUFUCKA WE BE ILL IN HERE TAKIN OVA THIS CITY SITTIN PRETTY WHOSE A BITTY YOU BE
Glad to be coding in Python again.
Smells like pet food in this office.
After much capsaicin in my eyes, croaky phone conversation, and couch sleeping I have a car, a cigar, and nothing more that rhymes. FUUUUUN.
These home-grown peppers are a great alternative to smoking.
&copy; who slaughtering. All rights reserved.
Sour patch kids in whisky make a whisky sourpatch.
I could have sworn she was drinking four loko in the budig computer lab.
Up to The Wire.
ENCOUNTER YR CORPSE
Those krauts knew how to rock. Excuse me; kosmische is the preferred nomenclature. Now if I could find a proper recording of a dithyramb...
the atoms of amino acid side chains are named by the greek alphabet. the alpha carbon is part of the backbone and then the side chain goes:
"And then some schadenfrohes little bird flew past him and twittered: 'What do you matter? What do you matter?'" GS §332, The evil hour.
Drinking wine and writing 5-7 pages on Nietzsche. "Before the effect one believes in different causes than one does afterward." GS §217
Those oft are Stratagems which Errors seem,
Nor is it Homer Nods, but We that Dream.
-- Alexander Pope
Anyone have tweet bot ideas? I could use a fun side-project.
Grrburr
Sick to my stomach.
Just heard a little kid say oh em gee walking down mass street. Day made.
A candy colored clown they call the sandman.
And we should consider every day lost on which we have not danced at least once: Nietzsche. Well then, I've found my day.
The rest of my night looks like Barbara Kingsolver's Prodigal Summer and a gin and tonic by lamplight. Pajamas discouraged.
Have you ever awoken to a frank hallucination? As in, some fragment of your dream world realized unexpected within your first waking scene?
Coyotes.
Metaphysical tickets.
MUSIC WHY DOES BESTING ALWAYS HAPPEN
@truobamanation oh yo i might go esp. if barry o'bombs is on the scene
Disgusted with the old. Bored of the new. Now
"Blessed are the sleepy ones: for they shall soon drop off."
BURR
We should do something other than the usual sitting around talking about
Truesand tyler.
Soft and sweet?
Garbage bin?
All the leaves are brown. Stopped into a church. On such a winter's day.
DEVO
What can I say about race that hasn't been said. I'm blond and blue. But where are you? Writing myself into corners again.
You're all grown up. Now what?
Architects and me.
What's Lockton?
Fuck I guess There's no point in going to sleep... DOWNLOAD MUSIC FOR THE REST OF THE NIGHT O GOSH YEAH right I have to finish an essay.....
Oh, right, i guess this is the right time to be watching 30 Rock.
Machete & me gonna take ova Lawrence next weekend best WATCH THE FUCK OUT YA'LL
Pinky violence, holla back ya'll.
FUCK YOU. OO OO OO.
Wow, that tweet was barely intelligible. HOLLAAAAAAAAAAAA....
SMOOOOKE YA"LL K PIG TWEET LONDON TWEET ESSAY TWEET SWEET TWEET BRO COME @ ME
Writing. Thanks, Irish coffee, even if the results embarrass.
I might like you better if we slept together.
Watching online orders come in has been surprising entertainment. You want your instrument sent to Cybernetics Way? Yes Please Thank You.
Nothing that is vast comes to the life of mortals without ruin.
"—in a totally sane society, madness is the only freedom." J.G. Ballard
BRAIN PAIN. Ain't that some shit?
Batman's On!
Party over here.
One virtue is more virtue than two, because it is more of a noose on which your catastrophe may hang.
No ceilings / Tonight's gonna be a good night / Tonight's gonna be a could knight / Tonight's gonna be a would should night / No feelings.
Blair Witch Project on in the other room; drinkin coffee and Jack; reportin on Herodotos and tragedy; Multimedia Rhetorics; Eat or be eaten.
Sailing into Harbour Lights tonight, once I have finished my writings. At least I'm in it for the lulz.
CHEER THE FUCK UP YA'LL
GO OGLE
In Anschutz, drafting a multimedia literacy autobiography, listening to doom drone.
HELL OW OR LD
Twiddle
Engineers create limpid and moving plastic facts.
WHO HAS THE BODY WITHOUT ORGANS?
Canadian water pong.
Et cetera et cetera.
Brad Thorson has the best name on the team.
Finally at the casbah burger stand.
Uh WTF SOMEONE THREW A ROCK AT MY WINDOW AND BROKE IT
Rome, Athens. Religion, Philosophy. Power, Joy. How you doin?
MIDNIGHT I WANT OUT
@lauradevotchka pix plz
Early Morning Miles Davis Mind Melt. And Tumblr. Pages Upon Pages Of Tumblr.
I'm a blunt gettin smoked and I can't wake up
Forgot my phone charging at home bleh.
@lauradevotchka i put a song in your dropbox you should play it sometime.
How could mad particles be produced with anything but a 
gigantic cyclotron?
Or more accurately, some fools bleeting at each other in the street outside the bull.
Watching a bull fight
A map and not a tracing. (We shall demonstrate later that, as seen from the
Machine, the Past lies beyond the Future.)
@ Java Break, listening to some frizzy-haired dude in a jacket read the movie script he and his friends wrote about writing a movie script.
πολλοῖσι γὰρ δὴ ὑποδέξας ὄλβον ὁ θεὸς προρρίζους ἀνέτρεψε. - "God showed riches to many and then upturned their roots." - Solon in Herodotos
Pretty stoked on white shuddege right na
Writing a myth is hard. I need some divine inspiration.
I was hungry but then I tried Google Instant and now I'm kind of nauseous.
ffffuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuunnnnnnnnnnnn
oh god i just got on irc for the first time in a decade i'm never sleeping again. fun's all we have.
BIKE BASED IN AM
Strange.
day ov rest ya'll. now the sun's done, and i want labor. sabor needed.
Feelin like a rock in a river, gettin well-rounded.
Argentine Reling disaster.
Unspeakably excited to go to the Spencer on Monday for Herodotos class to look at old maps and meet the resident mapologist.
Dear campus. I want to rip out yr earbuds.
She's well acquainted with the touch of the velvet hand / Like a lizard on a window pane
A squirrl just dropped from a tree with a thwack right after i walked under it. Thoroughly spooked.
While writing last sleep's worst nightmare ever, my landlord knocked with mail keys & said "how 'bout some eyeball skis?" Then work called.
You must understand, when i get drunk, i hit on everyone.
woke up fo da thunda
@NoTryHard holla
Catholic melting pot
BONNE'S VELOCORAPPER
Sitting on a bench. Some old lady just took a picture of me lol
Best pyramid pizza run ever.
R.I.P. Papa Koppen. So long, and thanks for all the genes.
Hello, again, Lawrence.
slackin on packin
SPVUICE
mit GUSTO
wtf afternap
Dressed up for telecommuting.
Saw a fox then two racoons while biking round Leahills.
@lauradevotchka i saw a neon sign that sez NERDZ. not @ neon. not in lawrence.
Mind Altering Demented Lessons In Beats
Neon NERDZ
PING LOCALHOST
Moving stuff up to Lawrence tonight.
Ladies and gentlemen, Kenny's back.
"Hi I'm Ezra Lux and I'm 9. I like to listen to music and learn. My favorite band is Iron Maiden and I hate Reagan, and hippies, and Jesus."
"Where other languages permit mutually recursive functions, Haskell permits mutually recursive values."
Heaven hurts. Cry when you get older.
Totally spaced the Mad Men premiere and watched Godard's Contempt (Le mépris) instead.
SUNBRRRRNNN. Also, excited to see Sarah tomorrow.
@Calypso_jk Lake Viking in N. MO.
Brrgrr. Another weekend, another lake.
Bye Gaia.
Sarcophogus raid. Phase--
Keep watch. Never twist and glance.
We're all becoming light utility poles.
ROOF
As Stendhal writes: “The whole art of loving consists in saying precisely what the degree of intoxication requires at any given moment.”
Just now leafing
I'm going to Dempsey's tonight. To drink. And probably talk about web development. With KD. I'm leaving JoCo at nine. Join us.
@NoTryHard I was wondering if you were there. The concession stand closed right as we walked in.
Last song to play a Leawood City Pool before closing: Clapton's Cocaine.
Instead of FSB and WWW or playing cards with my uncle and pals I read Nietzsche and fell asleep early. And I'm about to leave for work.
Melting without A/C, working towards a Wednesday deadline.
@lauradevotchka don't hate
The Graduate on Tuesday and Barbarella on Thursday makes a great week of movies.
Twelven tweet while I eat --
Brand named mang
We've got some Apocalypse Now shit going on at the ponds tonight.
All cable services out at dad's just in time for the mad men premiere. Guess i'll just read Nietzsche.
Seek, Find, Share, Enjoy.
Carr's escalade, fireworks out the window.
Fourth of July resolution: plan ahead.
All the pretty girls go to the city.
Every time I get control of the TV remote I end up watching C-SPAN
WIRED WORD
Waiting room tweet.
Jolly rancher oh my god.
A drunken punch-up at a baby shower.
But srsly. Got my dad two cigars, a book by a dead basketball coach, and we went for a walk. Tonight I go to Carriage Club with mom's fam.
Excuse me; happy motherfucker's day.
Cousin Katie is getting married. Big family for the win. Except I can't get my tie quite right.
On the other hand, I'll be in Lawrence tonight. Holla.
today has been one of those stagnant days where i surf twitters and read poetry and download neat bits of javascript and accomplish little.
These days when I'm on Tumblr I'm all like like like like like like. Can't get enough. Can't ever get through the backlog.
Road sodas, classic rock, and talking about hitchhiking as a teen in the sixties with uncle Jeff on the way home from work.
Left untreated, Lyme disease can be worse than AIDS, causing animal diseases dormant in the human body to manifest symptoms. OMG VAMPIRES!!1
Doctor's office tweet. Had chick-fil-a for breakfast from a guy named Cactus.
Charging and updating devices = digital hygiene.
I fuckin probs have Lyme disease. Damn my debauched weekend. But love the off grid ranch where that nymph tick bit my loins.
Dooo it. Tweetin on michael's iPad atkevin's. Typing is a bit different. Mass effect 2 bein played. Drinking whisky and ice. This tweet sux!
Long lunch break.
A la pharm.
Watching the Anglo match. Sounds like they're playing in a beehive.
Fifty five. This unfolds.
Torrents!
We are as gods and might as well get good at it. Stay hungry, stay foolish.
@truobamanation happy birthday. reads like you're having a good one.
This evening: trampoline, turmeric on salmon, home-grown broccoli, cards, Celtics, Sweetgrass IPA. SUMMER FTW.
"How proud and wonderful -- also modest -- is this Bob Dylan poem." Gilles Deleuze, after lyrics sans title. What a great sentence.
I miss Dennis Rodman.
Channel surfing as fast as possible is like scrolling down Tumblr pages. The difference, of course, is in the content.
&lt; 100 pp. left of Infinite Jest.
Watching Easy Rider with Dad.
Ugh. Right?
Cure of Ars barbeque. Woke up at two, started in on the keg at three.
First Fridays tonight with cousin Tim "Buddhist Jesus" Martin.
Central united methodist preschool, represent.
Lights in lines, under dark waters. Three to infinity. No day for dull. Folded forms. A pan to fry in to the familiar. Do you truck route?
Sitting outside, listening to the frogs.
Brad Paisley, your tour has way too many trucks and trailers.
The detective and a pin-striped suit left with footage of a car relevant to a homicide investigation, I'm told.
A detective, complete with trench coat, tie, mustache, and notepad walked in on our conference call. Peeping security cam footage; ENHANCE.
Being taken and taking for granted comforts: Lawns; Decks; Washing machines; Saucer milk; Collared shirts; Cold knuckles; Honored intentions
@lauradevotchka so, uh, when are we going to shoot guns at electronics?
I have gained ten pounds since spring break.
Pleased with whoever named the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine.
"it’s the hyper that creates the stasis' #1111 (wired)
XENOPHANES!?! How can clouds made of water be on fire?!?
Happy day to all the graduates.
What u wearing &lt;"HE LOVE ME BEFORE U"&gt; A. Lol so u talking about ppl, lollipop did u mean to send that to me &lt;"HLMB4U"&gt; What should I sAy.?
Also, there are goslings in the backyard. Dad's not too happy about this. I think they're cute, but I don't have to mow over their poops.
Greyson's "Paparazzi"'s inspired. OK no more distraction!
Today: taking a mess of notes, ideas, half-written scenes, and character sketches and turning them into a compelling science fiction story.
Moved out.
bitty blue blink blotches; i haz.
Last full day in Lawrence. So far, better than expected. Now for writing. And my 1100th tweet. γλυκόπικρος: Sweet-bitter, bitter-sweet.
Honestly, at this point I don't have the time or patience to critique your shape-shifter fiction. What the hell is a malamute?
Budig Mac lab. So quiet. Such big screens. So much time I've wasted on Watson's blasted Dells. Now, can I finish my Iliad paper before noon?
@Flashboxzer happy birthday cuz!
Also, Justin Bieber's "Baby" video is a fitting compliment to my current sugar high.
Sitting around listening to music and eating cookies.
BLUH
Eagerly awaiting the thunderstorm.
I wish I was graduating.
I hate when i have an odd amount of tweets.
TOO MANY MORE-THAN-THREE-SYLLABLE WORDS.
Chenhall, Richard, and Kate Senior. 2009. "Those Young People All Crankybella." International Journal of Mental Health 38, no. 3: 28-43.
I must say, because I haven't said anything else here for 3 days, and because I have little else to say, that I'm having a weird go of it.
As ridiculous as my last tweet sounds, that literally happened in Budig today in my Anthro 308 class. Boiled my blood into a nervous resent.
I hope the suspect in McCollum is the girl who fired two blanks from a cap gun as she stormed out of  class after losing the hat contest.
23:1 hours awake to hours asleep ratio for the last 24 hours. I'm gonna go buy some beer with tax return money. Where the taste is?
Made small talk with the terrebonne people. They're looking for some part time help.
Memoirs of an insomniac amnesiac. Eeee ack.
B.I.G. synchronicity.
I meant "Fuck common people" in the best possible way, having just expended the last of my kinetic energy to some remix of that song.
Fuck common people.
And now to Neon.
On the back porch at henry's.
I want expensive sadness. Going to Harbour Lights.
Watching the new doctor who in sci fi class.
A quick glance in the mirror reveals: my pupils are huge.
Overheard, dude in a flannel, chunky frames, and shin tattoos: Like remember last night when you told me you could see music?
@truobamanation some fraternity hullabulloo
Too much spaghetti sauce. Orange sugar in coffee. Time for minimal noise, researching in Watson stacks.
"someone once called irony the song of a bird that has come to love its cage" - dfw
History is sensationalism.
Yawn. Cadillac. Watch some amateur translation videos.
I made a new cat friend named zetti.
There's a dude named Sly James running for mayor of KC. How I wish I could vote for him.
Much too entertaining, @synthiadog serenading @lauradevotchka at Henry's, making it very hard to concentrate on working.
@synthiadog i'm on it. i have a ton to do tonight too so hopefully study can come out of the parentheses.
@lauradevotchka twitter singalong ftw
you can't go 'round just saying stuff because it's pretty
“A line is a dot that went for a walk.” — Paul Klee
Whoops, I spelled kosmische wrong. Sorry to the German language.
Can's "Halleluhwah" echoing in my synapses. This kosmiche kick getting beyond control and consciousness.
good night! i'm gonna hope that having copied the treme pilot for my roommate will keep me in his favor for a while.
Phone is about to die and I won't get my charger until 11am. Nice thing about dumb phones, takes a week for the battery to run down.
Oh, yeah, headphones, like in my profile picture. Yay. Second listen on Caribou's Swim.
The alarm of a purple Toyota FJ parked across the street has been sounding quietly all day. Sad Barney SUV, speak up or shut up, please.
Drunk people will pay premium for free cigarettes.
Watch the Mo Money Mo Problems video.
I forgot how to tweet.
stormy tweet. close your windows.
munchin on broccoli
Planted spinach and arugula today.
I missed my thousandth tweet. Well here's the 1,006th. I'm going to KC for the weekend. Hail Satan.
Sun stoned. Feel like great. Still humming When I Goosestep.
Drunk people and April Fool's Day. Sounds obnoxious. Still, not bad enough to make me close my windows.
Make that one little kid for one arm. "Have you met my best friend?" Asymmetry. Whistling "When I Goosestep" by The Shins helps too.
Woke up with a horrified gasp. Must read to drive away the demons who look like my roommate with little kids for arms.
Sinus spring-cleaning symptom stamp-out cocktail: tylenol, benadryl, and coffee.
Mullet sighting outside Milton's. Directed him and hippy girlfriend to the natural history museum.
Going to the granada to see conor foley play in his band. Feel like super crap tho.
Off to see my advisor to plan my last fall as a KU student.
By "worrying about Homer's Iliad" I of course mean listening to Four Tet's "Sing" and scrolling down page 11 on Tumblr.
drinkin some OJ, worrying about Homer's Iliad, feelin sicken shit. Thirty Two Fluid Ounces (946mL).
The primal violence and utopian trill of the rolled r, the most rrresilient of locutions. (Please use headphones.) [I am not making this up]
Good serious drunken talk with my downstairs neighbor. Now, to watch One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. Read it, but never watched.
Anschutz is so fresh and clean and airy. Temple to learning, what. Munchers, ho. Oh hey I'm nocturnal again.
@lauradevotchka every night is bro night at louises, what did you expect besides to not see anyone you know slash would like to get to know?
Do your slax sufficiently convey your natural power -- at a glance?
@funwithlaura πάντα πάλι;
the cyrillic shuffle
found a way around my pin problem. now, less interwebs, more sun!
i've spent way too long trying to reset a pin, guessing what i said my favorite book was around 6/7/09. still no luck. any suggestions?
@funwithlaura i would have been back earlier today if it hadn't been for the snow. tomorrow afternoon, consider yourself hugged until then.
this could be ok if ali farokhmanesh ends up being the next larry bird or someone. hella clutch 3pt parabola. stay posi+ive jayhawks.
The drive home with Mimi was sublime. Wind, warmth, Ward Parkway, Sufjan Stevens, and Spice Girls.
B.S. 109 sub 304
Krispy Krunchy cajun fried chicken at Truman and Paseo for lunch. Then wrestling with open source PHP code running on Windoze. H8 Micro$oft.
i have spent way too much time on tumblr in the last 48 hours. no sleeping for me today. want to hang out?
Black tea and Coffee at the same time!
GAGAGAGQAGAGAGAGAGAGAGSAGQAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAGGAGAGAAGAGAGAGAGAGAGAAGAGAGAZ
NEON
Rip Van Winkle'd the day, woke up during a hour and half long phone conversation. now to see the teachers whose classes I skipped at Harbour
good morning...
Haven't used my McBook since seven on Saturday. Suffering major withdrawals. Is this really what I've become?
Overheard on campus: Sell a little pot on the side; it's kinda shady but you'll lake way more money than you witt just working at WalMart.
Nothing is evil, just dangerous.
@Flashboxzer congrats thats awesome!
@funwithlaura ?
"fiction consists not in showing the invisible, but in showing the extent to which the invisibility of the visible is invisible." - Foucault
vampiric week so far. i get the sense there's a basketball game starting about now?
Finnishing.
@funwithlaura or did you just type it?
Oh, this life, these people, this city. I can only affirm beauty. That, this is that is All.
In KC for my aunt's wedding. I'm always bumbling through transitions.
writing wrongs
i am hung over enough that i just failed at making rice. feels like satan shat in my frontal lobe.
dear random weirdo on tumblr whom i follow: do not post the entire tao te ching. i am not up for that much scrolling. read it thrice already
Just wrote half a story and checked the word-count: 1337. My elbow hurts. Fuck numbers.
anyone driving into KC this weekend with whom I could get a ride?
Apolo Ohno has perhaps the best name in recorded history.
From an Anthro blog: "It takes years of study and practice before one even understands what the hell anthropology is or can become." Great.
I like stairs.
WINTERMUTE
biblical weight loss! internet ads are the best!
Consumption tweet.
Harbour
My anthropology teacher didn't find much substance in my paper topic which i formulated while snoozing through my alarm. Go figure.
Both chimpanzees and artefacts have politics, so why shouldn't we?
Well, I got some beads, so I suppose that means I had a successful Pardi Gras.
HURRICANE KATRINA all over this paper
"Simplifying to the extreme, I define postmodern as incredulity towards metanarratives" - Jean-François Lyotard.
Upstairs at Henry's, drinkin a hurricane and writing about scifi
PHILOSORAPTOR
@ henry's, ready to drink once this homework mountain erodes to a molehill
Amik Ahmad, sorry i stole your japanese homework from the printer tray in the union comp lab. It was an accident.
Since I didn't go out last night I am waking up with an intense desire for Parti Gras festivities. Let's start at noon.
And i will play the muse to make the news.
Dirty projectors on bar stereo in Westport
I live in a very blond place.
@funwithlaura dunno, some mad genius.
All this work to do but I want fellow students in my vicinity. Anybody wanna go to a cafe?
Shoes Off And Chairs Away
I turn my feelings off. Made me untouchable for life.
Say: i don't wanna go to school, but i'm gonna go any way. Repeat.
Procrastinating, going through old notebooks - "mang ima pisces / rather be a killa whale," etc.
"how could they shop, feeling like this?"
@funwithlaura wtf
all clean and undone
woke up to my laundry wet on the counter and my roommate watching the superbowl alone. i can tell he wants to go buy something very badly.
click fever
RT @lauren_keith: Sometimes I'm embarrassed that I go to KU.
cure - noun: a Christian minister's pastoral charge or area of responsibility for spiritual ministry; a parish.
Sucking on skyscrapers, living on lifesavers.
FAFSA tweet
@truobamanation yes, indeed. let's run into each other more often.
“The self is only the shadow which sin and error cast by stopping the light of God, and I take this shadow for a being” - Simone Weil
Spent the last hour in discussion of bathroom rules. Talking with strangers about pooping, ftw.
Why did i schedule four straight hours of class over lunch on wednesdays?
Half of today's anthro lecture was on avatar. Now to discussion.
@funwithlaura now that i listen again, "so happy i could die" might be my favorite.
vbs.tv is horribly, informatively addictive
"Anything that disorients you is good."
dippin dots
Quizzical
MWF have apparently become sleep-through days. I feel like a super douche. At least I can make coffee at home now.
word of the day, yesterday: memome (like, genome)
soy sos
Seems like there's a little twitter hate spewed at every meeting of our scifi class. Tweeter pride!
caaaaaaaaaampus
POLITIX.Dear Thursday, I will not sleep at all while you are still today. Love, Jim.
Robots personify our technology.
Who plans on going to Yo La Tengo tomorrow night?
seventeen-letter words.
Plymouth Rock landed on Mars.
"It is part of the excessive egotism of the human animal that the bare idea of its extinction seems incredible to it." -- H.G. Wells
You know, it's  really too bad about Amy Winehouse.
a hazy morning resting atop caffeine artifice
I love you most of all, my favorite vegetable.
why does the intertubez luv bacon so much?
HOMER AND HIPHOP
Moseyin on down to free state.
Consider the obvious seriously, for few people will see it.
Being a day-sleeper is rough.
Let's play a game. Songs that you haven't heard in years that get stuck in your head that you're ashamed to admit. Virginia byTrain.
My roommate just went out! That never happens. Maybe this semester will be even better than I thought.
Woke up late. Pink lemonade and gin for breakfast.
hmbld
I have class in twelve hours but I must leave this apartment. Call me. Or I'll call you. Suspense.
30 ROCK. Also, Books & Cigs &gt; Groceries
Fiction writing should be fun. Pumped for Science, Technology, and Society at 4.
Nothing like wafts of fried food aroma to welcome you back to campus.
Judging from Blackboard bios, my Fiction Writing class that starts in less than 30 minutes is full of crazy characters. Hellz yes.
I have to leave my apartment to finish my homework for tomorrow (TV vibes...). Where should I go?
You're sharp.
Two in hand is better than one in the bush.
I can't sell out, cuz this is my life.
Tracking where you are and when you smoke is fine. Just don't tell us when you're buying smokes and booze. Keep tweets relevant to us, plz.
just got back from being in orbit, chasing endorphins.
Playing with PHP code on the second floor of a warehouse while everyone else sleeps under snow blankets at home.
Eating at Harold's, 1337 Admiral. Still gotta get hooked into foursquare.
Long underwear ninja.
So, basically... you gotta get blood on your spacesuit
Liquid Diamond Lipstick
Dream in Tangerine.
can't go wrong with grant morrison's x-men as a soberer. vibrate.
and gonna stay that way!
higher than the burj khalifa
Gotta get back to KC sometime tomorrow. Blergh.
Yawn. My mom gave me an awesome old british garden-deco psychedelic ash tray right after finals just because I said I liked it. Enabler.
Hosting my sister Maria and two of her friends tonight before they leave early for their Colorado ski trip. Oh gosh.
"The government of man will be replaced by the administration of things" -- Henri de Saint-Simon
And now I'm at Henry's.
I'm at Pita Pit. It's a brutally beautiful night to be out and about.
Check out Leslie and the Ly's. Oh gosh.
JOKE BANDS
At the Record Bar, waiting.
NO  GHOS TOO FULL.
Got her toes done up with her fingernails matchin
IHOP
Laura's roommate smashed their door window all over the floor. LOL.
WANT DINER FOOD
Happy new decade tweeps
Smarties for breakfast
Calvin and Hobbes, Attack of the Deranged Mutant Killer Monster Snow Goons tweet
OH OK FINE I AM NOT CHANGING OUT OF MY SWEATPANTS
Anyone still in KC?
happy now
Surfer Blood @ the Replay on March 13, the day before my birthday
Just watched Gandhi with Dad while cuddling with kitty.
seven hundred and five tweets hello.
What should i do with the nibl.us domain?
Lady gaga is a catholic school girl gone amazingly awesomely beautifully wonderfully correct.
homgry. mint chocolate truffles appetizing for a tuna melt. ommmmmmmmmm.
Pigeon.
Shoveling day. My mouth tastes like coffee and peanut butter.
Tick tock on the clock but the party don't stop. No.
Cheers and Merry Christmas. Make sure to play in the snow.
Started my night with Pinot Grigio and then had some Cabernet. Glad my sister got us home all right with 95.7 blasting and bad conditions.
The poop is in the pudding.
Ridley Scott + Brave New World
Can't find drivers discs and forgot to bring my flash drive and now what should have been a simple reimaging operation will take two trips.
Looking forward to pizza and Elf with mom and the girls. Maybe I'll pre-funk.
About to leave for Chez Charlie's.
The Milk-Eyed Mender.
My eyes just wiggled.
At Chez Charlie's with Laura K. The jukebox here kicks so much ass there is a couple slow dancing in the corner.
Yummy cookie
Happy
Unprepared, but honestly, I'm glad I got the sleep instead.
Breathe deep, siblings. It's nearly time.
Angel food, car snorts, organ tissue, and a low electric hum centaured at the solar plexus.
So earlier it was Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland, and now its Iron Man 2. Too many movies. I wanna see Sherlock Holmes and Avatar already.
Focus pocus.
My lil sister just said "awesome blossom" in a text she sent me. Happy birthday to her.
That geosynchronous feeling
Viking Jesus
House fire at 17th and Tennessee. Ultimate Smokey Tweet.
Tropical drones keep me warm.
@funwithlaura how's your morning at Henry's going?
Just mist it.
Just drunk dialed tumblr.
Headphone and ambient music mashups at Java Break
Academia: because agreeing on things is lame.
Snowy Smokey Tweet. When I was a kid my family would run around the house in our bare feet on the first snow of every year.
KOSMICHE
For breakfast, a banana and a Titan IPA.
Henrik Ibsen said, "To live is to war with trolls."
Drinkin Brain Toniq. Finally, I've found a consumer product containing Rhodiola Rosea extract. Nootropics FTW.
@funwithlaura i dunno. my heated apartment sounds like more fun.
Fall forward. Feel failure.
@Flashboxzer Nice! I'll have to check that out around Christmas time.
Reading an article on Slate, I see this Newsweek headline in the sidebar: "Iran Has Made Hostage-Taking a Diplomatic Tool." Duh since 1979!
Fuck me, I missed A Sunny Day in Glasgow at the Replay by a week!
Interview tomorrow in Strong Hall, room 13. Good thing I'm not superstitious.
Waking up when it's dark outside is a downer.
If I ever get the ear of a TV exec I'd pitch a reality sitcom called Shaggy the Cowardly Stoner.
Correction: had drunk. Writing is hard.
Preemptive FSB Tweet. As long as I'm awake, I'll be there. Maybe if Kant had drank more his sentences wouldn't have come out so convoluted.
Anschutz, catching up.
Next time someone uses the phrase "not as evolved" around me I am going to punch them in the face.
should be writing but am mining my old laptop for music and text instead.
RT @truobamanation: I love you twitter!
I am thankful for James Bond.
driving fast while blasting tunes!
going back to work basketball games at the gym was fun. i'll have to do that again.
Little kids are a fashion inspiration.
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu
this til ya that til ya this. gotta be at the gym in four and a half hours. yeeeeeesh.
Happy harvest feast day
OUT OF BEER OH NOES
Eating salmon and broccoli with Dad. Tonight: sitting by the firepit, smoking cigars, drinking, and hanging out with dad's pals. Damn geese.
At Dad's the only things to do are neglected homework, read the AV Club, or go the gym. AV Club it is. I'm on break, dammit.
Blink. Blink. Blink. BlinkBlink. blinkBlink. blink. Blink. blink blink. Bliiiiiink. BLINK.
Eat alot, take an AddXR, pass out. Wake up, have a weird chemheaded morning and get work done. Still lots to do but a helluva game.
We might have been born yesterday, friends, but we stayed up all night.
Smokey tweet at the Pig.
Coffee tweet.
hell u talmbout
Dear USA, please destroy my country's infrastructure with your many bombs and rebuild it so that my country looks more like Europe. KTHXBAI.
Winter makes me want to burn in hell.
Translating Medea and listening to The Fame Monster. I'm a freak bitch, baby.
Thanksgiving is going to be CRAZY
I do not feel real. Need to practice lisping for tomorrow's reading.
My only problem with Twitter's new built-in Retweet function is that you can't add anything to the original tweet.
I want your ugly, I want your disease.
I declare my first attempt at eggy pancakes this season a resounding success. Talking about food on Twitter!
some dude I follow on Tumblr posted five pages of UFO pix. WTF.
Going to the grocery store even though I'm hungry. At least I'm not stoned too.
Gone, so i'm rooted in the soil.
New rule: no names.
Those capes seem coy in guise.
We find sour notes.
Sieg Hope!
@truobamanation how's L&O?
@funwithlaura i thought you wanted to know my iq
Woot for warrenties.
I feel pretty good right now.
If I open my phone really slow, my screen works, but it's kinda yellow. Missed some great texts: aunt got engaged, sister rocked the ACT.
After translating Medea, talkin bout Freud, Ft Hood, art therapy, my Prof sez "The Humanities are about learning to deal with strangeness."
PRAYING TO BE SAVED BY A MAN WHO CAN FLY WILL GET YOU KILLED
gack running late
This is for kids worried about the Apocalypse. Do Something. Prepare yourself and stop talking shit. -- El-P
@truobamanation fuck yeah. i want to secede like vienna. not sure what that means but it sounds good.
MY LEFT EYE BURNS. I AM MAKING A PIZZA OUT OF TORTILLA AND SPAGHETTI SAUCE AND SPINACH AND CHEESE AND BACON.  YOM OM NOM NOM OM NOM NOM NOM.
The web sez my phone's video card has partially burnt out. Boo. Heading to that coffee shop with the Italian name.
earlier i was reading the arkham asylum comic and saying batman's lines out loud in a gravelly voice but then my roommate woke up. oh well.
"Why is it always the good people who have to die, Dad?" / "Well, I guess it's just funnier that way, Son."
@truobamanation Can't argue with Simple Twist of Fate. What a potent tincture of melancholy.
The Fire in Which You Burn is the best rap song featuring a sitar. And by that I mean the only and the awesome. Funcrusher Plus.
Sit ups 'til you can't get up.
Corrupt to the mitochondria.
@funwithlaura theory and practice of funk! what a great course title. that'll be fun.
Don't text me until further notice because my phone screen got white-washed. Everything else works fine. I'm all like WTF.
Doctor No sez: You have cigarettes--enough and the right sort to cosset your cancer?
Newt sez IBM and WalMart should have rebuilt New Orleans.
Next nayed the violence against women act because it limited second amendment rights.
Third point: Newt gathers much wool.
First point: recommends the natural history museum.
At the alumni center in my best bedhead eating pizza and waiting for Next Gingrich.
Second point: we are already at war with Iran.
Fiction Writing II FTW
Do song snippets inform your decisions? Should I stick with Development of Modern English or switch to Fiction Writing II?
Welcome to Anschutz Library. Please check your sense of self at the door.
Smokey tweet at free state. But i'm leaving.
The Taproom is playing Nosferatu.
My little sister is being Lil' Wayne for Halloween.
Taking advantage of my roommate's weekend vacation to write like mad.
Still conscious, he clasped the maiden in his faint embrace, and, as he gasped, he shot onto her pale cheek a swift stream of oozing blood.
ENGL 507 - Science, Technology, and Society:  Examining the Future through a Science-Fiction Lens. Yes. Enrolled and excited.
Had oatmeal squares for breakfast today, came back from class, and behold it is National Oatmeal Day. I must have the twine flu. How punish.
Good morning, earthlings.
GET EXCITED AND MAKE THINGS
fuck yeah egg drop soup
Drinking hot water. Caffeine is wack.
My mouth tastes like garlic. The better to repel vampires.
Quivering Quasars
I always forget that Netflix costs money.
alarms for the weekend mornings set so i don't have to spend uncomfortable amounts of time in the library on sunday nights.
A girl at a party i just walked past yelled out Mario and i answered Polo. Then a dog ran by me.
and Paranormal Activity. I watch too many movies. SCREENS!
I wanna see Where the Wild Things Are
Accepted my Google Wave preview invite. Looks awesome but pointless if none of yr friends use it. Just like Twitter in 2007. Haz 20 invites!
Weekend!
Eight 30. Rock.
Watching Godard's Weekend tonight, after I write a cover letter and update my résumé.
tortilla, olive oil, italian cheeses, pineapple, bacon. bake. pizza!
Eight hours of sleep and it's Thursday? Douglas Adams never could get the hang of Thursdays. Today is a perfect day for a perfect day.
In the spirit of metaphorical generalization: Looking back, you may go blind. I'm about to walk back up the hill. HEALTH.
metamorphosing into a cetacean.
I'm either gonna drown or grow gills. Better yet, I gotta accumulate good karma so I'm reborn as an orca.
Also, working on the computer is intolerable without engaging musical accompaniment.
I've downloaded seven albums in the last 24 hours. I've a thiefy hoarding problem.
Awesome what.cd comment: wuWhat sez "Woohoo i'm a statistic"
And miss out on Jenna's Tennis Night Promo?
Did we seriously just watch the entirety of Trapped in the Closet?
Speaking of cannabis: here on Ohio somebody stole the 2 from 1102 and 04 from 1104.
Berkeley was a jackass. Modern Philosophy sucks. At least I have Boredoms to make fun noises in my ears. Hey Bore Hey, Bo Go, Bore Now Bore.
Scientist Rids the World of the Evil Curse of the Vampires is a soundtrack for an easy skankin haunted house dance party. 'ell yea.
Synestheisure
Not only did I get an extension on my paper, my professor found sources relevant to my topic for me. And I'd been hatin' on the guy.
HEALTH
I'm really balls deep for America.
That's why they put on lipstick. And that's why we're men. Because we tip well.
Let's phosphoresce by intellection.
Soul food is gut food, know what i'm sayin? It sticks to you.
Hella detached.
My alarm clock program is awesome. I don't even have to move and I get to listen to music in bed all morning. NO WESTERN CIV CLASS TODAY WOO
Trying to figure out how to make studying and paper writing more compelling.
Out for BRAAAAAAAIINSSSS OM NOM NOM NOM NOM NOM
Whisky blanket acquired.
Yeah, they're dead. They're all messed up. Beat 'em or burn 'em. They go up pretty easy.
Baking: the better way to heat your home.
Warner Brothers is currently working on a remake of Clash of the Titans and a Warcraft movie. Oimoi.
Smokey dream.
Smokey tweet!
I don't think I've ever sat down for a serious listen to Air's 10,000 Hz Legend. Holy fuck.
Chocolate milk with a dash of Tabasco sauce is awesome.
botnet was fun; i'll have to return.
So far for Dad I've scraped paint from windows and made salsa from homegrown veggies. Next: raiding a groundskeeper's hut for firewood.
Nothing that is vast comes to the life of mortals without ruin.
Movie tonight at 8 in Alderson Auditorium - A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum. Free admission and classicists galore.
That went well. I am definitely writing a horror story for my Western Civ "Response Paper"
About to have my short story workshopped.
staying up all night. sugar and caffeine and yo la tengo and thor and steve jobs are my only friends right now. maybe i'll watch robocop.
twitter: the cut up bird chronicle.
Having my mind reconfigured instead of looking up Greek vocabulary; AN IRONIC DREAM OF A COMMON LANGUAGE FOR WOMEN IN THE INTEGRATED CIRCUIT
Stereotypical tweet: bacon for lunch!
Hello world!
lambent
okay, lets talk about The Magic Christian: movie with Peter Sellers & Ringo Starr, satire, 1969
also thx to fuck buttons. beautiful noise!
feeble
Rumsfeld forgot about the unknown knowns, the unconscious; Gaia is a dirty bitch. Slavoj Zizek should come lecture at KU. His quotes amuse.
Incredibly angry I am in the library critiquing an 8-page, 90210 episode of a short story instead of drinking at Free State. FML.
weddings are hazardous to my health. and now i have some catching up to do. boowoo.
Oh, Kansas City. &lt;3. Now I'm back in Leawood and feelin fine and drunky. Lovely Lawrence, see you tomorrow, babe.
Holy crack whores, the terrorists have won, thanks to this bullshit motorcycle parade.
Fuck motorcycles.
On the K-10 connector talking to a student from China who introduced himself as Slash.
Google redesign: changing the size of search and button text.
Western democracy, in effect, is marketing and communication. Thus true art interrupts marketing, is that which communicates nothing.
Writing + Beer + ... = Profit!
College feels like middle school sometimes.
I missed Obama's speech. I voted for him so I have the right to not pay attention to what he's doing and write a story for fiction class q:
I almost made it three whole weeks without sleeping through all my classes. Bollocks.
It's peanutbutter jelly time. And then it's sit by a window in Watson stacks and write until my wrist gives out time.
I love my job.
Without Flipper, grunge wouldnt've been the same.
I have 7 souls.
mornings are great. all of the sudden i sleep normal. this hasn't happened for at least a decade. and, it's 50 and i'm wearing long sleeves.
PB&J was like a sloppy glucose bomb. Yummy.
Tossing a cigarette into your mouth is hard.
Self-incrimination is fun.
getting your six hours of sleep from four to ten is a bit too unorthodox, even for me :/
Cigarettes: an instant-action, out-of-fashion anti-depressant you can take with your friends.
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu
sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
ccccccccccccccccccccc
Sleeping all afternoon makes Jimmy a dull boy.
Grant is in my western civ class. Awesome.
Fuck hyperlinks.
But yeah whatever I'm gonna go eat a Lotus Exige.
One more awkward wedding shower at Dad's and I'm free of family for a month.
Ulysses, Ulysses, Soaring through all the galaxies, in search of earth, flying into the night. Ulysses, no one else can do the things you do
Watching a bust at tenth and new hampshire. Three cars followed one down Mass. And now we've got four sheriffs on the scene. The cops we ...
Looking for a new job.
Deep in the bowels of the power and white district.
Also, thanks to whoever named their wireless network TAO and left it open. I stole all the extra network cables a while ago.
Pissed about doping in baseball? Get over it. In the words of Lily Tomlin, "reality is a crutch for people who can't cope with drugs."
What's wrong with PEDs?
My uncle just added me as a business connection on Plaxo. What? Looks like even the oldsters are getting meta.
Morning. Welcome to a week of intrigue.
"Four be the things I'd been better without: Love, curiosity, freckles, and doubt." Dorothy Parker, such a charming melancholic.
Mostly moved in. The end of an era. Only (nearly) the end of a year. Drinking makes moving waaaay better. Thank Ganesha for my wakefullness.
Busy week! Full workdays, moving at night, then Pitchfork, somehow.
Maybes on Mount Kimbie.
Second power fail of the day here at the EBL. This time, it's staying off.
we've got an electricity addiction. can't get enough of those little twinges!
@
Feels like the beach outside today.
For the 4th of July I tried to watch Gonzo in one sitting and failed. Freak power is boring; the squares have it. Bomb bomb bomb, bomb bomb
The news isn't news
The world is quite dull
My blues are your blues
Our mind is full
PHASE IV
Did I say April? I meant July... Also, Red Bull Natural Cola is spicy delicious.
Sonic Youth plays in St. Louis on April 17th FOR FREE. I've a ticket to Pitchfork in Chicago on the 19th. Perhaps I can go to both?
Papa Legba sez: First Law of the Universe. EVERYBODY HUNGRY!
unnamed drink recipe - brew equal parts black tea, orange rinds, and mint. pour over a shot of white rum and a shot of water. use a mug.
'eyo Faulkner, what's yr beef with the question mark?
when you wake up late and get to work underfed and feel refrigerated by the air conditioning, there's nothing like a cup of coffee.
He who controls the spice controls the universe.
"When I woke up, the dinosaur was still there"
Glad I still enjoy Weeds. Gotta download Season 2 of 30 Rock. Listening to a Micachu mixtape while reading The Invisibles is almost like TV.
Two new episodes of Weeds have aired! I hope the magic isn't gone. 30 Rock is on hiatus and I'm not sure what I saw in Kings.
On the way to free state!
kids. with. guns. also, babes with guns. also, bam! guns are fun. perhaps the best possible thing i could have done to break in those pants.
Broadway cafe, why are you playing 'hot in here'? Bike in front of me, why are all your lights a-blinken?
drove myself from lawrence to kc. highway driving makes me feel unusually powerful, these days.
your brain on drugs: phenethylamines like mdma can cause nystagmus, or involuntary eye wiggles. now, my eyes wiggle when i'm sleep-deprived.
glad the web is vasty or i'd be bored outta my skull. summer: hell...fuck yeah. need less time with computers and more with people!
gooood morning. sensors say it's 62 degrees and breakfast time. i hope i don't get fired today. ): i wanna sleep like a normal person...
today was bizarre. or rather the lack of today is bizarre. i'm tired or something. what? i missed the first day of school! but i don't go to
this weekend was a binge-then-hibernate affair. i watched apocalypse now redux after i woke up and now it's time for my 30-hour work-week.
Show time. Angry Telephones snap the bottleneck.
stimutacs
y'know that infinite writing monkeys producing shakespeare idea? it's happening now on the web and we're the monkeys...too much coffee f'me!
gonna be rainy and dismal today so i'm gonna get my grunge on.
thought is the sixth sense.
Been seeing Basquiat's SAMO tag around Lawrence. Same old shit, indeed.
and after a peanut butter, nutella, fig preserve and blackberry jam sandwich, a bit of reality returns: i'm a hustlin' neglectionator.
quotes of the day, so far: "anti-war is anti-orgasm"; "pitchfork's a t-shirt company right?"
Tall trees cast restless shadows on the pages of ancient tragedies. I &lt;3 summer better than college.
got a sunday pass for the pitchfork festival and dianogah is my new favorite band.
Sunday: I'm having a lot of fun thinking right now. Tuesday: can we stop thinking now?
To clarify, he's here in lawrence talking at 800 New Hampshire. Psytrance dance party to follow.
Question and answer with Daniel Pinchbeck. Look him up for new age psychedelic 2012 singularity munchies.
reports from Cannes say Inglorious Basterds is awful and Antichrist is awesome. Still want to see both.
today is towel day in honor of douglas adam's hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy. one year i carried a towel around with me all day at school.
No, better to sit and share space with a fellow creature, until the hum of the air conditioner wanes and it's gone.
When there's a skunk at your front door its best not to walk through. You wouldn't want to startle it and smell like pew.
A B+ C- D ... an explosion in the middle of to pass.
clinton lake made my right eye swell. nature sucks.
once aristophanes' clouds, twice abrams' star trek; thrice seated.
Also, I want to see Star Trek! I'm trying to think of synonyms for Twitter-trendy...
Bad Day LA: Are You Prepared?
brain dead.
i &lt;3 pop music: auto-tune, sinkin like quicksand, short attention spans. i don't like lady gaga tho; bad choruses.
oh how i do like writing early in the morn when no one stirs and sleep's forsworn.
I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass.
The Cheese Project is completed. Verdict: more cheese.
@i lukeyou tetris uber alles, understood.
Pleased to meet you, won't you guess my name?
Nothing like a night out drinking for a 21st birthday after being sick for two days.
fizzy drinks are better when poured into your own cup. thanks to the diamond shamrock and jimmy john's for helping me survive manbirdpig flu
More twitter twatter, yay! The semester's end approacheth meaning more tweets from procrastinating students stuck in computer labs.
Everyone in watson has been instructed to go down to the basement. Woo!
A few notes from my my walk to the library: weddings smell nice and this nice dream is a talking baby wizard.
dear twitter, i &lt;3 your short form. love, jambly kappin.
Puck pisses off with talkie none stance unwelcome. A latent milk prof always alarmed at what comes as no surprise. Mind space alienates.
Tea and Lemonade. Where am I? melting into the air. burning my throat. :: Substance is Essence.
Taking a the of mag tweet with bob's iphone
Is today an appropriate day to celebrate a potent amnesiac?
Creative campus: the evolution of perception was dope. Dee oh pee eee!
I'm totally tweeting all over a ku football blanket.
happy bicycle day! get a bike trip in if you can.
@cbalmac lolololol snuggie pub crawl you serious?
my grandmother just friended me on facebook.
Walking home, singing the Mr Roger's theme song.
Goin to get some cajun and and a copy of the tempest.
I would TGIF but he's dead so I guess I'll thank Freya instead. It's her day, after all. Happy deathday Jesus!
Today is No Vision Correction Technology day. Take out those contacts and case those glasses. Partial blindness is fun!
staring starting to not be able to see what i'm doing because i stare for too long every day at this screen full of things i don't care abou
Making friends with your demons is cathartic. Problem is, I'm gonna be awake for a while. Looks like I'm watching Johnny Mnemonic.
Over. My ears will be ringing for days. Fuck yeah.
Well that is over
Ooo Mmm that distortions back.
Drum break!
Gotta boy with elf locks tryna mosh and a girl on guitar and vocals and another guy killing some drums.
And it begins. With smoke and red and growls.
Hammerlord has left the stage. Jucifer up next.
Shred! Live tweeting from the jackpot. Its metal, bitches.
R.I.P. M.L.K.
FML. Less sleep more work. Time to replace one vice with another.
Writing in Anschutz isn't so bad. Actually, its easy, as long as you're well fed and thoroughly caffeinated. To be alone among strangers.
Woke up to the postman's doorbell ring. Got a brown envelope from Mumbai. More adventures in online consumerism forthcoming.
My shoes and pants still have lime-mud on them. I found five water-warped notebooks of mine in my dad's basement over break. Raw materials.
Another good show and a whisky sour. Can't ask for much more. Slowly descending, into alcoholism never ending.
If aliens watched humans procrastinate as a form of entertainment, I'd be a superstar.
The last man on Earth sat in a room. There was a knock on the door...
to videobomb: 1) find a recording video camera; 2) walk in front of it; 3) make a funny face or do something ridiculous. see "to photobomb".
Today on my way to work I video-bombed a KCTV5 interview with a sorority sister and saw Santa waddling to the locker room after his workout.
I had forgotten the beauty of traffic lights smeared across wet pavement.
Sitting outside on campus by wescoe, studying and drinking sweetened tea on this beautiful day. Overheard: my doodoo had glitter in it.
happy grammar day! so, a verb walks up to a noun at a bar and says "hey baby, wanna conjugate?" and the noun says "no thanks, i decline"
nothing like new material possessions to brighten your day. twenty more minutes and i get to come home to my new burgundy buddha machine 2.0
Urban chameleons blend into busy and battlesnakes descend into whizzy. Coz like weezy sez -- wane is whizzy, and busy is bane.
This isn't the first time i've been called an asshole, and it won't be the last. I will kill you, derek setter.
it is nice to be able to sit outside and eat in the sun and roll up sleeves and chat on the phone while leisurely walking among people.
must waffryz eet now! tomorrow 4:31pm = nix 1234567890. today darwin. saturday &lt;3. eristoddle sez humans's rationalimals. werd but noidform.
Sunbathing, listening to the bell tower class practice, and studying. Best day evar. Then to the Spencer and Watson.
If marvel will send me a wolverine costume i will wear it around campus and advertise.
Pop!  winking in and out of existence, keeping Time.   Today I spilled someone's soup with my elbow and it was embarrassing. Walk slower...
Big Bangs happen all the time. Competing energy expansions correct entropy and cause flux. Just need explanatory math and hard data.
today while surfing I learned that: the sky is falling, the rainforests are ok, investigative journalism is dying, most posts are fungible.
quote of the day: They tried to get me to hate white people, but someone would always come along & spoil it. -- Thelonious Monk
absinthe makes the heart grow fonder, but alkaloids keep it beating fast and steady. a cool confident day comes rarely and need be used well
food i &lt;3: pb & hummus sandwiches, sushi, soup, fried rice, french toast, chick-fil-a, oats w/ brown sugar & cinnamon, the big greek shuttle
Fuck Microsoft! Wankers! Blowhards! Fart-loving, Kool-Aid drinking robber barons! Impotent panty-fetishists!
is a crude materialist, worshipping idols and finding magic in the mundane.
sometimes I stare at the screen so long my vision turns horizontal-striped - like blinds, but transparent. digitally induced analog static.
Hustlin on MLK day cuz my President is black.
House party tonight at 1620 Tennessee.
london@selectdoor.com sez: (hi bill) Chrystal said u'd want to c this, & sarah sez: car doors in the backyard, & i sez: wat?
a b see dee / ewe feel grand hang / django krantz land pang / quite really sum ui / cold spaghetti swirls curls take the johnaid band dang
Maybe my tweets will be sweeter if I txt them.
smoke cigars, shop away the blues, channel surf, save the children in africa, read dracula, eat frozen pizzas; a consumer whore -- and how!
sleep, watch movies, go to the gym, eat mexican food, pretend to work, drive old cars, rinse, and repeat.
is a fatso-bobatso / be bye bobatso / fatso.  ho ho ho.  merry xmas.  don't let the santa claus bite.  have a cookie?  this has been another
hip hop, jesus, milk, myspace, 28 days later, BIC, crepes, bikes, kid cudi, sadhus, airplanes, snow, corduroys, lah, and fly ass glasses
gobama '08, etc.  when does the backlash start?  hopefully, never.
i need to get my friends on twitter.  most of them seem satisfied with facebook status updates.  lame.  at least the mars rover tweets.
tonight, at 1:30am, being driven home in the rain, i saw a fat, shirtless man walking down my street with his be-poloed son --; how absurd!
for me, finals week means a wacky sleep and food schedule, cramming, good background music, caffeine, internal strife and a zen-like calm.
in Rhydymwyn, North Wales, exploring an old chemical weapons plant.  Be back in time for tea and quesadillas.
heard mgmt, outkast, j dilla, the heptones, handsome boy modeling school, gza, company flow, the beatles, and two dubstep podcasts today
so i come back to my apartment today and, lo and behold, my bike has been returned, same lock combo and everything.  i'm confuzzled.
remembering my boss's Leopard disc and trying to teach myself Objective C.  Goin kinda slow... so I'll start simple.
John McCain is the Manchurian Candidate!!!!!11
screwed myself over.  gotta lock it up.  good thing i've never seen 2 girls 1 cup.
pitter patter, twitter twatter.  deeper ties to elephant eyes make the whole world blind.  anonymous angels shoot up the whole town.
tweet tweet, skeet skeet.  uh wha?  nevermind, just glance behind and see you've only gone a few steps from where you started.
riding the tram is way better than visiting the wizard.  being functional ftw!
being nocturnal is bad for your academic career.  however, it gives you vampire cred.  a pretty even trade-off, when all is said and done.
i biked 4.5 miles to get cough gels.  who says drug-seeking behavior is never healthy?
shrimp in spaghetti; unorthodox, but delicious.
snow days ftw! too bad i can't always rely on acts of nature to save my lazy ass.
thinking about being poor and having awful money management skills is no fun.  hookah and writing are a better use of my time.
procrastination. i has it. but seriously, who wants to write a one-page reaction to an article about academic sloth?
snow days are great.  not that i actually did anything but sleep today.  lots of calls to make; lots of reading to do.  best get to it.
woof woof motherfucker.  welcome to mars.  i hope you didn't forget your diamond bollocks.  that would truly be a shame.  apocalyptic, even.
no more free-trade agreements!  i'm glad that imp will never address the state of the union ever again.  a new figurehead will be wonderful.
if you shout things into the abyss, the abyss will answer with a subliminal whisper.  the worst kind of earworm.  and i still need books.
waiting for books to ship may not be worth the money saved.  doesn't help that fedex says my address is "incorrect."  bitches...
being lost on a large university campus is humbling.
if nothing else, 2pac rapped over some grooviferous beats.  tomorrow, after a living with my parents for eight months, i finally escape!
up too late again.  damn you, world wide web --  damn you!  i suppose this is why those dastardly alarm clocks were invented.  time to read.
drunkish, listening to bizarre ride to the pharcyde and about to watch the final cut of blade runner.  a merry festivus to all!
its saturday night and all i want to do is get lost in an alternate universe.  also, soaking in hot water is a good hangover nausea cure.
listening to a tribe called quest and taking a break from studying by working on my website.
statistics homework sucks but at least i may not have to take the final tomorrow thanks to freezing rain.
trying to get the three-part wail from the good, the bad and the ugly out of my head while getting situated for next semester
listening to led zeppelin perform dark magic on stage with their instruments.
writing about the historical significance of the us and uk and letting ideas for a website grow in my head
I am somewhere within each of these books at this slice in time:

Marcus Aurelius' Meditations
Aristotle's Politics
Deleuze and Guattari's A Thousand Plateaus
Emerick, Carper, and Grand's Clojure Programming
George R.R. Martin's A Game of Thrones
Walter J. Ong's Rhetoric, Romance, and Technology

And sometimes I crack open my old Bible from Rockhurst.

Prioritize? Ong is due on July 5th. Initially picked up his book because he also graduated from Rockhurst High School and was a student of Marshall McLuhan. RR&T was the only book of his at a nearby library. Perhaps I should focus on that, and then read Game of Thrones when I tire of the academic style. Borrowed GoT from Abby, so that's also a return priority.

The rest of these I own. I just started Aurelius last night. Refreshing. Aristotle's Politics I read like half of quite quickly and then lost steam, but still enjoy it when I pick it up.

Clojure Programming I've also just started, and it occupies a different part of my time and mind than the other books. My only worry there is that I will continue to be distracted by recruiters offering jobs for which I am under-qualified that are located deep in the bowels of Johnson County, not to mention Hacker News and other such online brain-crack.

A Thousand Plateaus is more like brain-junk, or "the milk of the poppy" as they say in GoT. Best to take it up only very occasionally, though of all these books I'm juggling, I've been at it the longest and am farthest along.

Of course there are other books which I have left unfinished, moldering in boxes or on my bookshelf. I tried to join GoodReads to make this sort of thing a more social endeavor, but then I was confronted with sorting through my Facebook friends. No way ho say.
Provincial means a limited worldview focused on one's own milieu. Provincial thinking flourishes on the internet. Mailing lists, twitter feeds, Facebook friends, paywalls, wiki-links: There's more information than ever at our finger tips but we follow our preconceptions and hear the words our mind pronounces.

Maybe we don't need all this information. We're all inter-connected even more than ever, yes, but why should the gory details about what goes on halfway across the country matter to me? Increasingly my interest and ability to make sense of politics or movies or what ever any body wants to gab about wanes. No body has roots in the ground any more. Cull the creeping vines. You're not a bird. You're a sack full of seeds.
I alluded this on Facebook recently, which probably means I'm in danger of some readership. Hello. Yes, I know I'm unreasonably paranoid.

When I was young I wanted to be a spy.

What do I have to sacrifice to whom to get a circadian rhythm?

I have no taste for these intrigues.

This blog is rotten. I should probably get a new one. All I want these days is something of my own. Whatever that means. Indoor enthusiast.

I just censored myself. Sorry.

I'm going into business for myself. That's exciting.

When will I ever grow up? The world may never know.

What's something to talk about that's not myself? Yes, I am some thing.

I have lots of vague ideas. Cool.

What have I been reading and learning about lately?

Oh, yeah. Erlang. I like its syntax. Coffeescript looks like Erlang a little bit, but its a bit more Pythonic.

Clojure's gonna be a long haul.

I want to build something soon. I am sidling up to it, this making a simulacrum. The last one I did wasn't too creative on my part. I should look into the federated wiki thing Cunningham just released. C2 helped get me through my first couple months of working in an office.

I didn't even get a CS degree, you guys. I probably belong in the Bay Area. I'm glad I studied Humanities. Digital Humanities. Zynga. Too many loose threads from my brain. If I'm an intellectual, and an intellectual is one who watches their own mind, I've turned mine into a Medusa.

M83s latest album just came on. I was listening to Cluster. I saw M83 that year I went to Pitchfork. What a clusterfuck. I am a sedentary. Traveling always ends up some sort of ordeal. I need serious help for it to go well. Maybe once I've recovered fully from my bipolar/substance-abuse college existence every thing will be obnoxiously easy again. Even human interaction. That'll be a gain from the whole college fiasco. Thanks. My standards for myself are still self-torturously high.

This might be narcissistic, but I feel like therapy is even more so.

Friday is First Friday. I have a meeting in the afternoon and then art later. Saturday is whatever until later when I'm driving to Topeka(?!) to see an old friend and neighbor.

Monday and Tuesday I have meetings. Monday I have an alcohol evaluation. August I get to bike and or be driven everywhere. Honestly, muscle memory makes driving incredibly boring. I'd like a driver, whether human or robotic. Eventually.

I'd like to turn my mind back to techne and mathematics and the sublime and let social concerns care for themselves. Power is power. I buzzed my hair.

I get impostor syndrome all the time, not only with regard to myself and my abilities, but with other people, especially when I travel or encounter lots of strangers all at once. On the one hand, such floods of humanity make it painfully obvious how very many unique individuals there are in the world, and the impossibility of knowing, categorizing, and generalizing about them all, but then at the same time the necessity of it. Fuck.

I was raised fairly conservatively. I have a big heart which has led me to be more liberal. I feel that fading already. Or perhaps it was always a front, some appendage to the core of my beliefs about the world that I used to expend excess compassion. That doesn't sound quite right. Scrap that. I'm not nice. I will not tolerate your shit, wafflers.

Buddhist Catholic.

Maoist capitalist.

I never quite got the hang of integrals. Too many special cases, I couldn't wrap my mind around them all into a coherent heuristic. So what. Book-learning worms.

Alcohol sucks. Not as bad as the drugs that you suck down, smokes. Still. I'm bored of being twenty-something already. Probably I'm not very good at it. Never have been good at acting my age. Always like adults better than my peers when I was a kid. Good kids make bad adults, Ariel Pink said that. What does he know?

Of course, I was mostly not a good kid. I think I got in trouble more than most. In school, anyway. My parents maybe spoiled me. Maybe I still relate to Achilles to much. I can't do Dionysus anymore, what a fucker. Jesus is like Dionysus but watered down, regulated, bureaucratized. Some little kid is talking about the 5-MeO-DMT frog on this M83 album. Cute, guys.

It's very funny to be a frog! OK this is actually really cute. Becoming-animal!

I really just want to finish ATP but goddam its dense. I'm dense. Whatever. Now I'm in the nomadology, war-machine talk chapter (1227?) and I'm seeing where Cyclonopedia was riffing. What is happening to popular culture? Whatever, most of it is repeats anyway. Recurse, repeat, again, again, more, more, yes, OK. Again. Oh yeah, that's what this blog is about.

THE ETERNAL RETURNNNN be lag.

I sure do have a lot of pirate booty. Sorry about your middle-man industry, guys. Move on. That's what everyone else has to do, all the time. You're tough.

If you think I'm a saltine, well, I did eat a hell of a lot of saltine crackers and peanut butter when I was kid. Still eat like a bird. Or a horse. All metrics contain some bias. SO WHAT.

Shit-list:

What's up with psychiatrists from other countries? Just because I bought drugs from online pharmacies? Can you blame me for trusting websites and faceless foreigners over having to fucking drive my fucking carcass all over the damn place and make small talk with some person I don't even know about incredibly personal shit and expecting them to divine form that what is wrong with microscopic particles in my body? WHOLEY SHIT YOU GUYS.

Y'all think I'm trippin, I think y'all are trippin, we all are trippin, Ima do me. Fuck you; pay me.

Yes, I'm stubborn. Yes, I'll forgive you for being a duplicitous ickhole. Thank you, you're welcome, come again soon.

Yes, I am frightened. Scared of the unknown. I don't know anything, which makes pretty much everything scary, and everything I do some small act of courage. If you think about it, same with you, right? Probably you're still going fine on some vintage courage from back when you were a kid and first explored the ocean blue. I had that for a while, but then I think I broke it. God broke it. The universe broke it. The liberals broke it. Drugs broke it. Trolls broke it. I guess its fun to be a kid again.

Well I made it through disc 1 of Hurry Up, We're Dreaming. Good job guys. Good job readers. I won't pat myself on the back for shit. Fuck self-promotion. I'm not an artist. I'm a person. A human. A snapping turtle. A poster. Hello.
I don't normally write during the day time, so I'm going to try that out. Also I'm going to make rice and beans and listen to more music. I have to be down the street for a meeting in two hours and fifteen minutes. I'm going to scope out a bike route on the way. Before then I should also execute my hygiene sequence.

Changed my mind; rice and vegetables. Waiting for rice to boil. This really isn't conducive to writing. The daytime seems to be for banality. I'll have more time to write when the rice has boiled.

Didn't put in the last half cup of water. This is what happens when you try to do more than one thing at once. Situation rectified.

Right, what was I going to write about.

The UNIX-HATERS Handbook is amusing. That said, I would not like to enroll in your expensive Microsoft product training and job-placement service. Nice boilerplate, bro.

OK, disc two of Hurry Up, We're Dreaming. Thirty minutes of writing before vegetable frying and rice tending begins in earnest.

Sorry to be such a hipster hacker. Let me talk the shit and neckbeard hacker can write the code. But I'll want to code some too, just prototypes and such, of course.

But honestly, I think I approach thinking about what to build in the wrong way, trawling the web for ideas. Out of some pre-existing social context, any app is worthless. Now that carpooling apps are blowing up I feel somewhat dumb for dropping the KC-Lawrence rideshare idea so quickly. I no longer even own that domain. All it really needed for more adoption was a gussy-up design-wise and a promotional email, but I didn't take those next steps. Everyone seemed to forget about it after a while. I feel like I need to be in a collaboration space with friendly fellow twenty somethings during the days to do something useful like this. I tend to dwell on things longer than most people, which is a double-edged sword. Rideshare would be very useful now that I'm impendingly carless.

Didn't make any connection between M83 and 1983 until now, on OK Pal.

The copy of Grimm's fairy tales that I have was published in MCMLIV, so 1954.

My previous rideshare app was basically a glorified PHP CRUD app with all the variables stored in GET, which is about as inelegant as it gets. If I rewrite in HTML/CSS/JS ("HTML5") I can run the code through PhoneGap and have native clients for all the various mobile platforms. I suppose I'll still need the PHP backend, though. Concerns are of course privacy, so encryption and some trusted form of identity verification would be necessary. Haven't fucked with Facebook apps, but they've got a partnership with Heroku which would be nice for prototyping. I could even be lazy and use my old PHP code. Twitter doesn't seem like the best platform to build this off of, because the fun in Twitter I find is more international, pseudonymous, and not that serious.

But we're talking here about a problem that's being solved over and over again by lots of people. Is the trend away from monoliths like Facebook and Twitter and towards more localized applications? Seems like that's a place to start. Also advertising is far from the only way to monetize such a product once it becomes difficult to maintain as a hobby project. Gas stations, car companies, even payment processors, insurers, may be interested in some sort of tie in. Vague, sure, whatever, I'm brain-storming here.

If I could do this before my license suspension, that would be a motivating deadline.

Tangled web and what not.

Who the hell is Steve McQueen? Wait, why did I ask that question, I don't care and if you answer I'll forget because its not important to me and we'll have wasted each other's time.

OK, that was easy.

Nap City, I have little relish for the idea. I mean, if I lived in a dense urban area, yes. But as it is I live in the liminal zone between suburbs and urbanity, really in a very suburban immediate setting. I have like three different places in my apartment that I take naps. So whatever.

French spoken word over synth-y held notes. Epic low-end. I don't know, this is kind of tiresome.

Time for food prep. Peace bitches.
Sometimes these locks would last for days.

Solid virtue the shot of accident nor dart of chance could neither graze nor pierce.

Can you not see how I would do what I am doing good to others?

A rejection would seem more in harmony with others.

Take forth paper, fold it, write upon't, read it over.

Of my birth that differs not from the helm to sit and watch by you.

This sun of York; And all the devils of hell be drawn in France, his true inheritance?

Frame of nature from the fix'd place; drew from my heart.

The better for being a bawd, a bawd, why, chance may crown me without my stir.

Miracles are past; and we will make it our suit to the Duke that is absent have done this.

How their successors might have coped with Eden Olympia?

Commands Achilles; Achilles is a fool; and this way will I.

Doth daily make revolt in my penurious band.

Fiery coloured life and wondered how it was necessary to be new without being odd, often sublime and always natural, to know the name.

Love on hackney jaunt Blazes blind coddoubled bicyclers Dilly with snowcake no fancy clothes.

Triumph of ultrasonic music had come with a second development the short playing record, spinning at 900 R.P.M.

Perhaps testing him to see a wide balcony that ringed the university, she said quietly.

The maverick who attended no lectures and sat no exams, a solitary wounded child.

Baby's cot, and lifted the elderly Negro from the car.

Calming himself, he realized that there was no clear dividing line between the sea and wet sand, part of her recent take, dried in the sun.

To shield his eyes as he did the bloody hand prints that Mrs Wilder had laundered his white jacket.

 So absolute that it was time to find the entire terrace sparkled with jewelled light.
 Writing.

Into a state of trance.

Share a misery which nothing can alleviate; yet your presence will either give me life coarse and rank, the merchant banker, is dressing in his bedroom closet.

Parks exerted a particular fascination for middle income housewives.

Watch, I climbed through the grass towards the circular rim of a flooded bomb crater.

Remain hers.

A moral authority far more intimidating than the tired psychiatrists who worked within their wards.

As a new kind of time and space.

I couldn't stop watching you.

I could not be.
Cuts off his head. Vacant names: Okonee, Koosa, Ottawa, Willamette, the prison, popular odium, unchanging, long primer, author's footnotes nonpareil, marginal clues brevier, captions small pica.

At least follow from how he has him arrested. Drawn by a mysterious fatality, the young man approaches and greater sets follow, that his advice was not sleep any more than a baby, that some whalemen who had been impelled by generous nature deliver her message.

Excuse wisely, wisely and truly I think. But in my youth was guilty of the cause, yet sought the very virtue of your shrill shrieking daughters; and hath forgot that foul conspiracy of the most part such to whom I so carefully have dress'd!

Him; therefore he gives her folly: help'd her to it. Him way; thou wast born. Faithfull'st off'rings hath breath'd in my head still wear the diadem, Enchas'd with all speed You shall go. For Tunisia and Morocco and two greeters stand outside the door, uncomfortable. So I don't feel fully alive.

We genuflected, then it was up to the underworld. Zeus solemnly compromises and allows Persephone to the spiritual realm expressed in terms of admission to Honors class, logistically a noon class in the political consciousness of the meaning, obliquely thematic. Less frequent as any came below the midriff surrounds the ever varied powers of frost and desolation; I believe that, for his intended voyage and to get back one's youth, the noble son of Anchises must escape the piratical hawks.

Breath. A good speed. Radical member of the funnel small native schooner, he is? The Irish Times. Coach and three ornamental scars on each side, and thus it was, drew back. System of cruelty to children, whosoever of ye, ye are going the highroads.
That's the number of pageviews my dashboard says I have. I don't really have any context for that metric, though, other than "leet." Cool dudes.

Now listening to Thee Oh Sees via The Walkmen Radio March playlist.

Let's talk about life. It's Friday the 13th. Let's get Unlucky.

Let's do the same thing over and over until we die, OK?

The last time I saw Thee Oh Sees in concert was in March. It was SXSW. I was strung out on inaccurately prescribed anti-depressants and the general over-stimulation that accompanies such events. In retrospect, that was fun. I talked to many strange strangers on that trip. That doesn't happen enough. Or I'm not as open to it when I'm home. I think I might have talked to Brigid Dawson at the bar, but in all probability she was just a look-alike. I didn't make the connection at the time. I didn't make, like, any connections at the time. Mostly stood off from the crowds. At one point someone was shining a spotlight on me for whatever reason. Seemed like there was a lot of internationals at that particular show. The Pitchfork show too. The whole freaking thing, also.

Great anti-piracy spot on Spotify. Like you need to tell me. What the fuck am I going to to do with hard-drives full of pirated media? I'm going to make a 'too much booty' joke. That was it.

Once I get on my financial feet and have more 'freedom,' guess what I want to do? Travel. How terrifically obvious should that be.

Experiences over stuff. Every time. All the time. Save your money. Spend your money.
Last night before coming to Lawrence I took three boxes of books to Prospero's on 39th, to get some cash to keep me solvent. They took most of what I brought them, and it seems to me that they got a hell of a good deal. They did refuse to take some books, though, all of which came from the one box which was unsorted:

Python: In a Nutshell (admittedly quite outdated; my first programming reference book, circa 2003)
The Audacity of Hope by Barack Obama (didn't realize it was in my unsorted box; haven't yet read)
Don Giovanni (from Whitman Core)
The Scarlet Letter by Nathaniel Hawthorne (from Hagedorn's Honors English class)
An anthology of English Romantic poetry (also from Whitman Core)
An informational booklet on the U.S. state quarters
I suspect there's one I'm missing but if I don't remember it it must not be that affectingly important.

I got $32. Not going to read into it any more than is necessary for making a blog post about it.
Looking through old notebooks can be witty.

This post was going to be a collection of excerpts from physical notebooks of mine that I found to be wise (or witty). Now I say to that idea, nah, too self-indulgent.

Current song: Salem's King Night. One of my favorite Ave Maria remixes.

Sonic Youth's Anti-orgasm says that anti-war and anti-God is anti-orgasm. Duh.

Listening to Joanna Newsom can do that thing where a rush of feeling makes my entire dermis prickle.

iTunes should list in "Recently Played" tracks that you didn't finish.

Apparently I have an old Cloud Nothings 7" called Didn't You and they aren't nearly as angry as on their newer stuff and its actually pretty good!

I'm just taking a break from working by listening to Shuffle on my pirate booty collection and talking about music.

Not really feeling the hip hop today. Or the Life Aquatic soundtrack.

Beethoven is cool though.

Plato said something like "music deranges the senses." But Aristotle seemed to have a more nuanced understanding of it, saying that youths should learn it, but only certain instruments and melodies. He recognized that rhythms and melodies encouraged certain states of mind, and in certain cases this could be a Good Thing. He seems to think that music then should only be performed for fun, and that mastering an instrument so as to play for a paying audience was "unfit for free men." Curious.

Anyway, I can't find much fault in listening to Beethoven, except that I'm not making money right now. But life's not about making money, any more than its about having children or becoming famous or whatever else people seem so obsessed with.

Spoon Takes the Fifth.
